acknown: aware. 
adventure my discretion: risk my reputation. 
aery: nest. 
affectioned: affected, one who puts on airs. 
affections swayed: passions ruled. 
against the hair: or, as we say, "against the grain," a metaphor from brushing the hair of an animal the opposite way to which it lies. 
agnize: acknowledge. 
aimed so near: guessed as much. 
alarum'd: summoned to action. 
alike bewitched: each of them equally enchanted. 
all exercise: i.e., all their habitual activity. 
ambition: for the Elizabethans the word had the special meaning of unscrupulous pursuit of power. 
amerce: punish. 
Anon, anon: In a moment! 
anters: caves. 
a patient list: the limits of patience. 
apparent prodigies: wonders that have appeared. 
argal: therefore. 
aroint thee: begone. 
arrant: out-and-out. 
arras: tapestry, commonly hung in medieval castles from ceiling to floor for the prevention of drafts. 
as thou list: any way you like. 
asquint: crookedly, falsely. 
atomies: miniature beings. 
augurers: priests who interpreted omens. 
auspicious mistress: as a favorable influence. 
bastinado: thrashing or cudgeling. 
batten: glut yourself. 
bawbling: small. 
bawcock: fine fellow. 
bawd: go-between a man and a woman. 
bear hard: bear a grudge against. 
beetles o'er: overhangs. 
beggarly account: very small number. 
behoveful: necessary. 
beldams: hags. 
belike: probably. 
berattle: abuse. 
beshrew: a curse, plague upon. 
betid: happened. 
betimes: at once. 
betoken: indicate. 
bewray: reveal. 
biddy: common name for a hen. 
bilboes: fetters. 
bird of night: the owl. 
bite my thumb: an insulting gesture in Shakespeare's time. 
bite thee by the ear: a term of endearment, not of assault. 
blasted: barren. 
blazon: proclamation (like a coat-of-arms, or possibly, a triumphant blast on the trumpet). 
blinking idiot: that is, a fool's head. 
bodements: prophecies. 
bodkin: dagger. 
bombard: leather bottle. 
bootless: useless. 
bosky: wooded. 
bowers: glades. 
brach: hound bitch. 
brainsickly: foolishly. 
bray out: celebrate. 
break his day: fail to pay on the prescribed day. 
break with: break our news to, discuss. 
brief candle: life is compared to a candle flame. 
bring the device to the bar: bring the trick out into the open, to be judged (a flavor of the law is in these words). 
brock: badger or skunk. 
broken sinews: racked nerves. 
bruit: echo. 
buckler: shield. 
busky: bushy. 
but soft: slowly. 
caitiff: wretch (term of endearment). 
caliver: light kind of musket or harquebus introduced during the 16th century; it seems to have been the lightest portable fire-arm, except the pistol, and was fired without a "rest." 
callet: whore. 
cank'red, cankered: rusty, malignant (a canker is a bud-destroying worm; hence cancer). 
cantons: love songs (cantos). 
cap-a-pe: fully armed from head to foot. 
carded: mixed with something base. The word was in use from 1590 to 1635 for mixing different kinds of drink. Henry IV, Part 1
carrion men: decaying corpses. 
carrions: living carcasses. 
cashiered: dismissed (but not necessarily without honor). 
casing: all-embracing. 
catch: musical round. 
cater-cousins: close friends. 
caterwauling: making a wailing noise like a cat. From Middle English cat + wawen, to wail (an onomatopoetic word, whose sound echoes its meaning). 
cautel: craft. 
cerecloth: shroud. 
cerements: winding-sheets, shroud. 
certes: assuredly. 
chafing with: beating on. 
chalked forth: indicated the direction. 
champain: flat, open country. 
changed eyes: fallen in love; the phrase, arising from the exchange of amorous glances, was a common Elizabethan one. 
chaps: jaws. 
charactery: what is written upon, i.e., the meaning. 
chariest: most modest and virtuous. 
charmingly: for the Elizabethans the word "charm" usually carried a reference to magic, as it does here. ]
checking at: swerving aside from. 
cheveril glove: kid leather (easily stretchable). 
chinks: cash (from the clatter of the coins). 
chop-logic: one who bandies logic; one who exchanges trivial points of logic. 
chopt: chapped. 
chough: jackdaw (i.e., a chatterer). 
Christian cursy: Christian charity. 
civet: perfume. 
clepe: call. 
climatures: regions. 
clodpole: blockhead. 
cobbler: this means bungler as well as shoemaker. 
cockatrices: mythological creatures, half serpent, half cockerel, famed for killing at a glance. 
collied: darkened. 
collier: coal-miner. 
Colossus: the huge statue of Apollo at the harbour of Rhodes. It was erroneously thought that its legs spanned the harbour entrance. 
colour: excuse. 
common proof: common experience. 
compass: bring about. 
compliment extern: outward appearance. 
comptible: sensitive. 
concave shores: overhanging banks. 
conceit: imaginings, nightmares. 
condition: constitution, state of mind. 
contagious blastments: destructive blights. 
contemned love: love that is given but not returned. 
continuate: uninterrupted. 
contracted bachelors: young men who are engaged to be married and whose banns are being called in church. Henry IV, Part 1
corky: dry with age. 
coronets: small crown, or perhaps a laurel wreath. 
corse: body. 
court of guard: headquarters. 
coxcomb: a fool's cap, often with a cock's comb attached to the top. 
coystrill: knave or base fellow. 
cozen: cheat. 
cozier: cobbler. 
crickets cry: thought of as an omen of death. 
crisped: curly. 
crochets: whims. 
crossed: opposed. 
crowner: coroner (one who conducts inquests). 
crush a cup: a common colloquial expression in Elizabethan English comparable to "crack open a bottle." Juliet]
cry you mercy: beg your pardon. 
cubiculo: room, chamber. 
cullionly barbermonger: rascal who goes too often to the barber. 
cursy: curtsey, bow. 
cut-purse: thief. 
dallying: fondling one another. 
date is out, the: it is no longer the fashion. 
dateless: everlasting. 
daws: jackdaws, or fools. 
dear account: sad reckoning. In Elizabethan English the word "dear" intensified the meaning -- you could have a "dear friend" and a "dear enemy." 
death's-head: skull. 
denotement: careful observation. 
dilate: tell fully. 
dismount thy tuck: take thy rapier out of its scabbard or sheath. 
dissemble: deceive. 
distaff: the spinning staff, and hence symbol of the woman. 
distemperature: illness or other physical disorder. 
do my duties: voice my loyalty. 
dog at: clever at. 
doit: cheap coin. 
dormouse valour: small amount of bravery. 
doublet: lined jacket. 
doves: the Chariot of Venus was drawn by doves, which were sacred to her. 
down-gyved: fallen, like shackles, about the ankles. 
drabbing: associating with prostitutes. 
dram: small amount. 
dropping fire: thunderbolts. 
drops of sorrow: tears. 
drossy: frivolous. 
dry sorrow (drinks our blood): another old belief, that sorrow caused people to go pale through lack of blood. 
dudgeon: handle. 
dunnest: darkest. 
dun's the mouse: a slang Elizabethan phrase meaning "Keep quiet." 
dupp'd: opened. 
dwell on form: do the proper thing (in the formal, conventional way). 
eanlings: lambs. 
Egyptian: gypsy. 
elflocks: when dirty hair became clotted together it was superstitiously put down to elves, hence "elflocks." and Juliet
eliads: from the French "oeillades," amorous glances. 
Elysium: paradise (Illyria). 
embowell'd: embalmed. 
encave: hide. 
enchafed: angry. 
endues: brings. 
engluts: devours. 
ensteeped: submerged. 
envy: hatred. 
enwheel: encompass. 
erns: grieves. 
Ethiop's: Negro, as used by Shakespeare, not Ethiopian in its narrower sense. 
extravagant and erring: vagrant and wandering (both used in original Latin sense, a common device of Shakespeare). 
extremities: extremes of power. 
eyeless: invisible. 
eyes' windows: eyelids (shutters). 
fable: palm of the hand. 
factious: active. 
fadge: fall into place. 
fain: glad, gladly, willingly. 
fall off: become a rebel or traitor. 
falling sickness: epilepsy. 
Falls purpose: is close to the truth. 
fashion: shape to our purpose. 
fat: amiable and satisfied. 
Fates: in classical mythology, the three goddesses who directed human destinies. 
favour: feature. 
feather-bed: i.e.. marriage. 
festinate: speedy. 
fetches: excuses. 
fia: forward! (from the Italian via.) 
Fie: interjection expressing sense of outraged propriety. 
figures: fantasies. 
fleer: scorn, or mock at. 
fleering: the Elizabethan meaning combined our "fawning" and "sneering." 
Flibbertigibbet: the name of a devil; here and later Shakespeare takes the names of his devils -- Smulkin, Modo -- from a book by Samuel Harsnett published in 1603. The names also give the effect of the devils, fiends and goblins of folk mythology, which would come naturally to Tom o' Bedlam. 
flirt-gills: loose women. "Gill" was a familiar or contemptuous term for a girl (as "Jack" for a boy). Juliet]
flote: flood, and hence also sea. 
flowerets: young men in the flower of their manhood. 
flung out: kicked and plunged wildly. 
fobbed: cheated. 
foison: harvest, abundance. 
fools' zanies: clowns' assistants. 
fopped: duped. 
fordid: destroyed. 
forks: legs. 
formal constancy: steadfast self-possession. 
four elements: earth, air, fire, and water: The Elizabethans believed that humanity was made up of various combinations of these four elements. The theory of humours was based upon this theory. 
franklin: yeoman farmer or holder of the freehold to a property. These men were in effect landed gentry. IV, Part 1]
frieze: rough cloth. 
frippery: old-clothes shop. 
from the main: not the strong. 
fulsome: fat. 
fust: grow moldy. 
fustian: bombastic, ridiculously pompous (when used as an adjective). 
gage: to bind as by oath or promise; to pledge. 
gaged: indebted. 
gallow: frighten. 
galls his kibe: steps on (scrapes) his heel. 
gamesome: sportive. 
gaskins: breeches. 
gasted: frightened (as in "aghast"). 
gauntlet: armored glove flung down as a challenge. 
gentle: noble, or well-born; mild or amiable. 
get the start: i.e., a head start; the metaphor from the running of a race is carried on in the victor's "palm" in the next line. 
gib: tomcat. 
give him o'er: leave someone alone. 
glazed: a combination of glared and gazed. 
gleek: jest, mock. 
goatish: the goat was frequently used to represent lechery by the Elizabethans. 
God-den: good evening, a contraction of the fuller "God give you a good even." 
goodyears: the word is usually taken to refer to the forces of evil, in accordance with the folk tradition of calling evil spirits by innocent names, e.g., "little people" for "goblins." 
goose: tailor's iron. 
gouts: drops. 
grace for grace: favor in return for favor. 
gramercy: many thanks. 
great wheel: the wheel of Fortune, and the great man (King Lear) in decline. 
green sour ringlets: fairy rings formed by toadstools. 
grise: degree. 
grizzled: gray. 
gross and scope: general conclusion. 
gross in sense: perfectly clear. 
groundings: the poorer and less critical section of the audience who stood in the pit. 
gudgeon: a fish. 
gull: deceive and trick. 
guttered: jagged. 
hams: knees. 
haply: perhaps. 
hard construction: uncharitable interpretation. 
hardiment: hard blows. 
harpy: a mythical beast having the head of a woman and the body, wings, and talons of an eagle: supposed to act as an agent of vengeance. 
hart: deer, with a pun on heart. 
have at thee: on guard! 
have old: have a great deal of trouble (a slang term). 
hearts of controversy: in rivalry. 
heath: a waste tract of land. 
heat-oppressed: capable of being handled. 
heave the gorge: become nauseated. 
heavy summons: a feeling of heavy drowsiness. 
heir-apparent: next in line to the throne. 
hests: commands. 
hie: hurry. 
high-lone: quite alone. 
high-sighted: ambitious. 
hilding: a good-for-nothing. 
hinds: deer. 
hit together: agree. 
hob, nob: hit or miss. 
hold carelessly: think little of someone. 
holidam: originally the holy relics upon which oaths were sworn; by the late 16th century this word was used as a weak asseveration or mild oath. 
holp: archaic form of helped. 
horned man's: cuckold's. 
housewives: hussies. 
hugger-mugger: secret haste. 
humour: feeling (of fear); to persuade by flattery; or a mood, temperament, or mist. 
hunts-up: originally the sound that roused huntsmen, this expression means any morning greeting. 
hurlyburly: the noise and confusion of battle. 
husbandry: thrift. 
ides: the 15th day of the month. 
ill-divining: foreboding evil. 
Illyria: a mythical land somewhere in the Mediterranean. 
impawn'd pledged. 
import: concern. 
in scarlet, to be: blush. 
incarnadine: turn blood-red. 
indign: unworthy. 
ingraft: habitual. 
ingrafted: deep-rooted. 
insuppressive: unsuppressable, indomitable. 
intentively: with full attention. 
intermit: hold off. 
inurn'd: buried. 
Jacks: fellows (contemptuous). 
jaunce: trudging about. 
jaundice: a symptom of violent passion. 
jealous: in the sense of suspicious. 
jointress: partner. 
Jove: King of the Roman gods. 
jowls: bumps. 
kisses Emilia: the usual Renaissance form of social courtesy. 
knapped: knocked. 
knits up: straightens out. 
knotted and combined locks: i.e., lying together in a mass. 
ladybird: a term of endearment, similar to "lamb." 
lay-to: use. 
lazar-like: like leprosy. 
leasing: the power of telling lies. 
leman: sweetheart. 
lethe: in classical mythology Lethe was a river in Hades, the waters of which induced forgetfulness. Here the association is with death generally. 
lief: soon. 
liver: the Elizabethans considered the liver to be the seat of the emotions. 
liver, brain, and heart: the liver vied with the heart as the seat of the bodily passions in the Elizabethan physiology; the brain was to control the exercise of both the affections and the passions. 
livings: possessions. 
loath: reluctant. 
loggerheads: numbskulls. 
long-ingraffed: long-standing. 
lown: rascal. 
lym: bloodhound. 
magnificoes: magnates, great men. 
maidenhead: virginity. 
make shift: be able to, manage. 
makes dainty: comes shyly. 
malapert: impertinent. 
marchpane: confectionery made of almond paste, sugar, and marzipan. 
marry: an oath, by (the Virgin) Mary! but in effect no stronger than "indeed." 
masterless: abandoned. 
maugre: despite (Fr. malgre). 
mazzard: head. 
meet: proper. 
meetest: fittest. 
meiny: followers, attendants. 
memento mori: reminder of death (usually a skull). 
meshes: net. 
mewed up to her heaviness: encased in her grief. 
micher: truant (our colloquial word "moocher" is derived from this). 
miching mallecho: slinking mischief. 
might not but: must. 
minion: darling, favorite. 
misprision: misunderstanding. 
moe: more. 
moiety competent: sufficient portion. 
moo: more. 
mooncalf: monstrosity. 
mortal arbitrament: settle a dispute by duelling to the death of one contestant. 
motion of the liver: the liver was regarded as the seat of the passions. 
mountebanks: charlatans who sell quack medicine. 
mouse-hunt: one who runs after women. 
mow: make faces. 
much ado: much trouble, fuss. 
much unfurnished: not ready. 
Mugs: common name for a country bumpkin. 
mushrumps: mushrooms. 
music from the spheres: according to Pythagoras, the universe consisted of eight hollow spheres, inside of which the earth and all the other planets are fixed. The spheres produced a note, each of which combined to produce perfect harmony that is inaudible to the human ear. The earth is at the center of this system. 
mute: slave whose tongue has been removed for security reasons, or silent person. Both mutes and eunuchs were associated with oriental courts. 
naughty: insolent, wicked. A stronger term for the Elizabethans than for us. 
new abroach: newly afoot (newly underway). 
night-tripping fairy: it was commonly believed that elves and fairies sometimes exchanged well-favored babies for nasty ones, who were often called changelings. 
nimble-footed: madcap. 
nimble-pinioned doves: nimble-winged doves. Doves pulled Venus' chariot and were held sacred by her. Juliet]
nonce: occasion. 
nothing jealous: have no doubt. Frequently used by Elizabethans. 
nuncle: an abbreviation of mine uncle; intimacies of address such as this were permitted to a "licensed fool." Lear]
O proper stuff: A fine thing this! 
occulted: hidden. 
odd-even: between night and day. 
o'er ears: i.e., underwater. 
of general assault: common to all men. 
of wax: i.e., as handsome as if he had been modeled in wax, finer than men usually are. 
on the hip: at my mercy. 
orb: poetic word for world. 
ordinary: a tavern. 
othergates: otherwise (than). 
out of haunt: away from others. 
out of warrant: unjustifiable. 
out: angry. 
outface them: get the better of them. 
overname: name them over. 
paddock: a toad, as in an attendant spirit that calls a witch when it is time to go on some evil errand. 
pale Hecate: Hecate, goddess of the moon and the underworld, was queen of the witches and witchcraft. 
palmy: flourishing. 
palter: quibble or deceive. 
pard or cat o' mountain: leopard. 
parle: parley. 
patch: clown or fool. 
paunch: stab. 
pearl: all that's good in the kingdom. 
peize: "piece out," delay. 
pennyworths: small quantities (of sleep); pronounced "pennorths." 
pent-house lid: the eyelid that resembles a sloped roof. 
perdy: from the French par dieu, by God. 
periwig-pated: bewigged. 
perpetual wink: endless sleep; death. 
pignuts: peanuts. 
plume up: gratify. 
point-devise: to the point of perfection. 
poor pennyworth: only a small quantity. 
portance: behavior. 
possets: a drink made from hot curdled milk, ale, wine, etc., and taken usually on retiring. 
posy: inscription inside a ring, often in verse. 
pout'st upon: treat with contempt. 
practicing upon: plotting against. 
praetor: magistrate. 
prate: chatter, gossip. 
prick: spur. 
primy: in its prime, youthful. 
princox: PRIN/ce of COX/combs; pert, saucy boy, upstart. 
prithee: I entreat you. 
prodigies: unnatural events. 
proof of constancy: test of endurance. 
proper: belonging. 
propertied me: made a tool of. 
prorogued: adjourned (postponed). 
pudder: tumult. 
puddled: muddied. 
puling: whining. 
purblind: quite blind or merely dimsighted. 
is pure innocence: i.e., has the same childlike sincerity. 
purple-hued malt-worm: purplefaced beer-drinkers. 
pursy: sensual. 
put foil: set it off by contrast. 
put on: incite. 
put to silence: a euphemism for executed. 
put up our pipes: pack up. 
quailing: cowardly giving up. 
quaint: the word has various Elizabethan meanings: skillful, ingenious, delicate, elegant. 
quick mettle: mentally sharp. 
quiddities: subtle distinctions, hair-splitting. 
quilets: quibbles. 
quillets: quips. 
rack'd reference to the rack, an instrument of torture. 
rank garb: gross manner. 
ranker: greater. 
rated: upbraided. 
razes: roots (from Latin, radix root). 
reasonable shore: the shore of reason, the mind. 
receiving: sensitive understanding. 
recks rede: takes no care of his own counsel. 
reechy: literally smoky, foul. 
reeking: sweating. 
remembrances: love-tokens. 
rest you merry: a colloquial term of farewell, comparable to our "All the best!" 
reverb no hollowness: i.e., make no noise, as a hollow vessel does when it is struck. 
rheumy: moist. 
rive: split open. 
robustious: ranting. 
romage: rummage, bustle. 
ronyon: a term of abuse or contempt. 
rouse: draught of liquor, bumper, toast. 
rump-fed: fed with expensive cuts of meat. 
sable silver'd: black streaked with white. 
sallies: sudden advances in battle. 
saws: maxims, aphorisms. 
scant show well: scarcely appear attractive. 
scanted: ignored. 
scarfed: with flags flying. 
Scone: where Scottish kings were crowned. 
scotch'd: slashed, gashed. 
scrimers: fencers. 
scutcheon: shield on coat of arms. 
se offendendo: in self-defense. 
seated in the mean: with neither too much nor too little. 
sect or scion: cutting or offshoot. 
seel: blind, close. 
self-bounty: inherent goodness. 
selfsame flight: same sort. 
sennet: a musical phrase played on the trumpet indicating a ceremonial entrance. 
sequestration: separation. 
set cock-a-hoop: orig., to drink without stint, make good cheer recklessly, (hence) to cast off all restraint. 
several bastardy: not true Roman blood 
shark'd: gathered indiscriminately. 
shent: rebuked, reproved, blamed. 
shoon: shoes. 
shoughs: shaggy-haired dogs. 
shrift: confession. 
shut up: retired to rest. 
sick offence: harmful illness. 
sift him: find out what one knows. 
signifying nothing: lacking sense or meaning. 
sir-reverence: filth, dung. "Sir-reverence" came to mean this because the word prefaced mention of unpleasant things (a corruption of "save your reverence;" i.e., excuse my mentioning it). 
skimble-skamble stuff: confused, rambling nonsense. 
sleave: skein (of silk). 
slenderly known himself: knows little of his real self. 
'slight: by God's light (common Elizabethan oath). 
slipp'd the hour: passed the appointed time. 
slubber: make a mess of. 
slug-abed: lit. slug in a bed, i.e., lazy creature. 
smilets: little smiles. 
sneck up!: Go hang (onomatopoetic sound of a man's neck breaking.) 
Soft you!: i.e., Hold on; wait. 
sonties: saints. 
sooth: truth. 
sounded: proclaimed. 
sow'd a grizzle on thy case: grown a beard on your face. 
spleen: anger. 
splenetive: full of spleen, hot-tempered. 
spongy: drunk, saturated with liquor. 
springe: snare. 
stand close: stand back, conceal yourself. 
star-crossed: i.e., their fortunes were marred by the influence of the stars. That men's natures and fortunes were influenced by the star under which they were born was a widespread superstition of Elizabethan times. Juliet]
steads: benefits. 
still: always. A common Elizabethan use. 
still quiring: ever singing. 
stoup: cup, flagon, or tankard. 
stronds: shores. 
stumblest on my counsel: overhears by accident my secret thoughts. 
suborn'd: secretly induced or hired. 
suit: wooing. 
swag-bellied: loose-bellied. 
swashing blow: knock-out blow. 
sweet friends: i.e., the two lips. 
swoopstake: in a clean sweep. 
swounded: fainted. 
tabor: small drum used by professional clowns and jesters. 
taper: candle. 
tardiness in nature: natural reticence. 
teen: pain. 
tell the clock: answer appropriately. 
tenders: offers. 
termagant: violent. 
terms compulsative: force. 
tetchy: fretful, peevish. 
Thane: an old title of nobility in Scotland similar to that of Earl. 
Theban: the association of the Greek city Thebes, as with Athens, is with philosophical inquiry. 
thought-executing: numbing the thought. 
thunder-stone: thunderbolt, lightning. 
tinkers: tinkers were a noisy lot and, being gypsies, had their own language (Romany). 
'Tis all one: i.e., 'tis all the same, it makes no difference to me. 
Tom o' Bedlam: one who begs on the roads and has been released from the London madhouse, Bethlehem ("Bedlam") Hospital. 
topgallant: highest sail on the mast; hence, summit. 
toy in blood: trifling passion. 
traffic: trade, commerce. 
traject: ferry (from Italian traghetto). 
trammel up: catch, as in a net. 
travelling lamp: the sun. 
trencher: wooden plate, lit. one to cut food upon. 
trimmed: dressed up. 
tristful: sorrowful. 
trowest: believe, give credit to. 
truckle-bed: small bed on wheels (cf. "truck") which (for a servant) was pushed under a larger bed (the master's), trundle bed. 
truncheon: a general's baton. 
turn Turk: turn bad. 
two-headed Janus: a Roman god represented with two faces, one smiling and the other frowning. ]
unbend: relax. 
unbitted: uncontrolled. 
unbound: unbounded, unmarried, free. 
unbraced: with doublet untied, open. 
unbruised: unspoiled. 
uncharge the practice: acquit us of plotting. 
undergoing stomach: enduring spirit. 
undone: returned to chaos. 
ungently: discourteously. 
unhoused: unrestrained. 
unhousel'd: not having received the sacrament. 
unmake: unnerve. 
unprevailing: futile. 
unprovide: unsettle. 
unreclaimed: untamed. 
unsinew'd: weak. 
unstuffed: by care (anxiety). 
untaught: unmannerly, ignorant. 
untented: uncurable; to "tent" a wound was to probe and clean it. 
unthrifty: unlucky. 
unyoke: i.e., consider your day's work done. 
upon the gad: on the spur of the moment. 
up-staring: standing straight up. 
urchin-shows: it was an Elizabethan folk belief that malignant spirits appeared in the form of hedgehogs to torment people. 
usance: interest on money lent. 
vailing: lowering. 
varlets: low, uncouth characters. 
varnished faces: i.e., wearing painted masks. 
verdure: vitality, health. 
vestal livery: virgin uniform. 
villanies: evil qualities. 
virgin hue: whiteness; the Elizabethans usually spoke of silver as being white. 
vizards: masks. 
void your rheum: spit. 
vulgar, the: the common people. 
wafter: wave. 
wag: witty fellow. 
want-wit: one who lacks wits. 
watch him tame: keep after him until he agrees with you. 
watchful cares: cares that keep one awake. 
water-rugs: rough water dogs. 
weak supposal: poor opinion. 
weather-fends: protects from the weather. 
weird sisters: weird, meant fateful, as in the three fates of Graeco-Roman mythology. 
welkin: sky, one of the elements. 
well conceited: both correctly conceived and aptly expressed. 
weraday: alas the day. 
whe'r: frequent in Shakespeare for whether. 
white-upturned: with eyes rolled, as in the whites of the eyes turned upward. 
whoreson: worthless (literally bastard). 
will he, nill he: willy-nilly, whether he wishes or not. 
willow cabin: small hut with willow (the sign of unrequited love) before it. 
wild-goose chase: my following you. The term "wild-goose chase" was applied to a contest where two riders started together and as soon as one obtained the lead, the other had to follow over the same ground, unless he could overtake him, when the position was reversed. The name is taken from the way a flock of geese flies in a line. The phrase has a rather different meaning now. 
wilt: must. 
windlasses: roundabout means, indirect attempts. 
wonder-wounded: overcome with wonder. 
wondrous sensible: very deeply felt. 
worser genius: bad spirit. 
wot: know. 
yarely: quickly, smartly. 
yerked: stabbed. 
yoeman: a property owner, but beneath a gentleman in social rank. 
young-eyed: the cherubim, according to Ezekiel 10:12: were endowed with keenness of vision above all other heavenly creatures. 
younker: sucker (colloquial) 
your mind hold: if you don't change your mind; if you are still sane. 