
A Tale of Two Cities 


By 

Charles Dickens 

PREFACE 

When I was acting ,  with my children and friends ,  in 
Mr .  Wilkie Collinss drama of The Frozen Deep ,  I first 
conceived the main idea of this story .  A strong desire 
was upon me then ,  to embody it in my own person  ;  and 
I traced out in my fancy ,  the state of mind of which it 
would necessitate the presentation to an observant spectator ,  
with particular care and interest .  

As the idea became familiar to me ,  it gradually shaped 
itself into its present form .  Throughout its execution ,  it 
has had complete possession of me  ;  I have so far verified 
what is done and suffered in these pages ,  as that I have 
certainly done and suffered it all myself .  

Whenever any reference  ( however slight )  is made here 
to the condition of the French people before or during the 
Kevolution .  it is truly made ,  on the faith of trustworthy 
witnesses .  It has been one of my hopes to add something 
to the popular and picturesque means of understanding that 
terrible time ,  though no one can hope to add anything to 
the philosophy of Mr .  Carlyles wonderful book .  



CONTENTS 



BOOK THE FIRST 
RECALLED TO LIFE 



CHAPTER 




page 


I .  


The Period 


15 


II .  


The Mai i -   .  .  .  .  


 .  18 


III .  


The Night Shadows 


 .  26 


IV .  


The Preparation  .  


 .  31 


V .  


The Wine - shop 


 -  43 


VI .  


The Shoemaker 


54 



BOOK THE SECOND 
THE GOLDEN THREAD 

I .  Five Years Later  .  

II .  A Sight  .  

III .  A Disappointment 

IV .  Congratulatory 
V .  The Jackal 

VI .  Hundreds of People 

VII .  Monseigneur in Town 

VIII .  Monseigneur in the Country 

IX .  The C4orgons Head 

X .  Two Promises  .  

XI .  A Companion Picture  .  

XII .  The Fellow of Delicacy 

XIII .  The Fellow of No Delicacy 

XIV .  The Honest Tradesman 

XV .  Knitting  .  

XVI .  Still Knitting 

XVII .  One Night 

XVIII .  Nine Days 

XIX .  An Opinion 

I .  A 3 



67 

74 
81 
96 
104 
no 
122 
133 
139 
 5o 
158 
163 
171 
176 
188 
199 
212 
217 
224 



IO CONTENTS 

CHAPTER PAGE 

XX .  A Plea 234 

XXI .  Echoing Footsteps 238 

XXII .  The Sea still Rist>  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  249 

XXIII .  Fire Rises  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  257 

XXIV .  Drawn to the Loadstone Rock  .  .  .  .  .  264 



BOOK THE THIRD 

THE TRACK OF A STORM 

I .  In Secret  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  276 

II .  The Grindstone  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  290 

III .  The Shadow  .   .   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  297 

IV .  Calm in Storm  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  302 

V .  The Wood - sawyer  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  308 

VI .  Triumph  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  314 

VII .  A Knock at the Duoi ;   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  321 

VIII .  A Hand at Cards  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  328 

IX .  The Game Made  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  343 

X .  The Substance of the Shadow  .  .  .  .  .  355 

XI .  Dusk  .   .   .   .   .   .   .  •  .  371 

XII .  Darkness  .  .  .   .  .  .  .  .  .  377 

XIII .  Fifty - two  .  .  .  .   .  .  .  .  .  386 

XIV .  The Knittino Done 398 

XV .  The Footsteps Die out for Ever 410 



LIST OF ILLUSTRATIONS 









PAGE 


Under the Plane - tree  .  .  .  .  .  


 .  Frontispiece 


The Mail 






23 


The Shoemaker 






6l 


The Likeness  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  






89 


Congratulations  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  






97 


The Stoppage at the Fountain -  






127 


Mr .  Stryver at Tellsons Bank  .  






165 


The Spys Funeral  .  .  .  .  






179 


The Wineshop  .  .  .  .  






207 


The Accomplices  .  .  .  .  .  .  






231 


The Sea Rises 






253 


Before the Prison Tribunal  .  






281 


The Knock at the Poor  .  .  .  .  






325 


The Double Recognition 






329 


In the Bastille 






357 


After the Sentence 






373 



CHARACTERS 



Sydnfa* Carton ,  a London barrister ,  an able but idle man ,  and jackal 
to Mr .  Stryver .  

Roger Cly ,  an Old Bailey spy .  

Jerry Cruncher ,  an odd - job man at Tellsons Bank ,  and also a resur -  
rectionist .  

Young Jerry Cruncher ,  son of the preceding .  

Monsieur Ernest Defarge ,  keeper of a wine - shop in Paris ,  and ring -  
leader of the Revolutionists in the suburb of St .  Antoine .  

Monsieur Theophile Gabelle ,  a postmaster .  

Gaspard ,  an assassin .  

Jacques One * .  

Jacques Two [■ Revolutionists ,  and associates of Defarge .  

Jacques Three > 

Jacques Four ,  a name assumed by Defarge .  

Jacques Five ,  an associate of Defarge  ;  a mender of roads ,  afterwards 
a wood - sawyer .  

Joe ,  a coachman .  

Mr .  Jarvis Lorry ,  a confidential clerk at Tellsons Bank ,  and a friend 
of the Manettes .  

Dr .  Alexander Manette .  a physician of Paris ,  confined for many years 
in the Bastille .  

Solomon Pross ,  alias John Barsad ,  a spy and secret informer ,  after -  
wards a turnkey in the Conciergerie in Paris .  

Marquis St .  Evremonde  ( i )  ,  a proud and oppressive nobleman ,  twin 
brother of the following ,  joint inheritor and next successor of tbe 
elder Marquis ,  and uncle of Charles St .  Evremonde .  

Marquis St .  Evremonde  ( 2 )  ,  twin brother of the preceding ,  and father 
of Charles St .  Evremonde .  

Charles St .  Evremonde ,  a French emigre ,  called Charles Darnay ,  son 
of the preceding .  



14 CHARACTERS 

Mr .  Stryver ,  a London barrister .  
Tom ,  coachman of the Dover mail .  

Mrs .  Cruncher ,  wife of Jerry Cruncher .  

Madame Therese Defarge ,  wife of Monsieur Defarge ,  and leader of the 
St .  Antoine rabble of women .  

Lucie Manette ,  daughter of Dr .  Manette .  

Miss Pross ,  maid to Lucie Manette .  

Marquise St .  Evremonde ,  wife of the Marquis St .  Evremonde  ( 2 )  .  

Lucie St .  Evremonde ,  daughter of Charles St .  Evremonde .  

The Vengeance ,  a leading Revolutionist among the St .  Antoine 
women .  



A TALE OF TWO CITIES 

IN THREE BOOKS 

BOOK THE FIRST: RECALLED TO LIFE 

CHAPTER I 

THE PERIOD 

It was the best of times ,  it was the worst of times ,  it 
was the age of wisdom ,  it was the age of foolishness ,  it was 
the epoch of belief ,  it was the epoch of incredulity ,  it was 
the season of Light ,  it was the season of Darkness ,  it 
was the spring of hope ,  it was the winter of despair ,  we had 
everything before us ,  we had nothing before us ,  we were 
all going direct to Heaven ,  we were all going direct the 
other way — in short ,  the period was so far like the present 
period ,  that some of its noisiest authorities insisted on its 
being received ,  for good or for evil ,  in the superlative degree 
of comparison only .  

There were a king with a large jaw and a queen with 
a plain face ,  on the throne of England  ;  theie were a king 
with a large jaw and a queen with a fair face ,  on the throne 
of France .  In both countries it was clearer than crystal to 
the lords of the State preserves of loaves and fishes ,  that 
things in general were settled for ever .  

It was the year of Our Lord one thousand seven hundred 
and seventy - five .  Spiritual revelations were conceded to 
England at that favoured period ,  as at this .  Mrs .  South -  
cott had recently attained her five - and - twentieth blessed 
birthday ,  of whom a prophetic private in the Life Guards 
had heralded the sublime appearance by announcing that 
arrangements were made for the swallowing up of London 
and Westminster .  Even the Cock - lane ghost had been laid 



l6 A TALE OF TWO CITIES 

only a round dozen of years ,  after rapping out its messages ,  
as the spirits of this very year last past  ( supernaturally 
deficient in originality )  rapped out theirs .  Mere messages 
in the earthly order of events had lately come to the 
English Crown and People ,  from a congress of British 
subjects in America : which ,  strange to relate ,  have proved 
more important to the human race than any communications 
yet received through any of the chickens of the Cock - lane 
brood .  

France ,  less favoured on the whole as to matters spiritual 
than her sister of the shield and trident ,  rolled with exceed -  
ing smoothness down hill ,  making paper monejr and spending 
it .  Under the guidance of her Christian pastors ,  she enter -  
tained herself ,  besides ,  with such humane achievements as 
sentencing a youth to have his hands cut off ,  his tongue 
torn out with pincers ,  and his body burned alive ,  because 
he had not kneeled down in the rain to do honour to a dirty 
procession of monks which passed within his view ,  at 
a distance of some fifty or sixty yards .  It is likely enough 
that ,  rooted in the woods of France and Norway ,  there were 
growing trees ,  when that sufferer was put to death ,  already 
marked by the Woodman ,  Fate ,  to come down and be sawn 
into boards ,  to make a certain movable framework with 
a sack and a knife in it ,  terrible in history .  It is likely 
enough that in the rough outhouses of some tillers of the 
heavy lands adjacent to Paris ,  there were sheltered from the 
weather that very day ,  rude carts ,  bespattered with rustic 
mire ,  snuffed about by pigs ,  and roosted in by poultry ,  which 
the Farmer ,  Death ,  had already set apart to be his tumbrils 
of the Revolution .  But that Woodman and that Farmer .  
though they work unceasingly ,  work silently ,  and no one 
heard them as they went about with muffled tread : the 
rather ,  forasmuch as to entertain any suspicion that they 
were awake ,  was to be atheistical and traitorous .  

In England ,  there was scarcely an amount of order and 
protection to justify much national boasting .  Daring 
burglaries by armed men ,  and highway robberies ,  took place 
in the capital itself every night  ;  families were publicly 
cautioned not to go out of town without removing their 
furniture to upholsterers warehouses for security  ;  the high -  
wayman in the dark was a City tradesman in the light ,  and ,  
being recognised and challenged by his fellow - tradesman 
whom he stopped in his character of  "  the Captain ,  "  gallantly 



NATIONAL DISORDER 1 7 

shot him through the head and rode away  ;  the mail was 
waylaid by seven robbers ,  and the guard shot three dead ,  
and then got shot dead himself by the other four ,   "  in con -  
sequence of the failure of his ammunition :  "  after which 
the mail was robbed in peace  ;  that magnificent potentate ,  
the Lord Mayor of London ,  was made to stand and deliver 
on Turnham Green ,  by one highwayman ,  who despoiled the 
illustrious creature in sight of all his retinue  ;  prisoners in 
London gaols fought battles with their turnkeys ,  and the 
majesty of the law fired blunderbusses in among them ,  
loaded with rounds of shot and ball  ;  thieves snipped off 
diamond crosses from the necks of noble lords at Court 
drawing - rooms  ;  musketeers went into St .  Giless ,  to search 
for contraband goods ,  and the mob fired on the musketeers ,  
and the musketeers fired on the mob ,  and nobody thought 
any of these occurrences much out of the common way .  
In the midst of them ,  the hangman ,  ever busy and ever 
worse than useless ,  was in constant requisition  ;  now ,  
stringing up long rows of miscellaneous criminals  ;  now .  
hanging a housebreaker on Saturday who had been taken 
on Tuesday  ;  now ,  burning people in the hand at Newgate 
by the dozen ,  and now burning pamphlets at the door of 
Westminster Hall  ;  to - day ,  taking the life of an atrocious 
murderer ,  and to - morrow of a wretched pilferer who had 
robbed a farmers boy of sixpence .  

All these things ,  and a thousand like them ,  came to pass 
in and close upon the dear old year one thousand seven 
hundred and seventy - five .  Environed by them ,  while the 
Woodman and the Farmer worked unheeded ,  those two of 
the large jaws ,  and those other two of the plain and the fair 
faces ,  trod with stir enough ,  and carried their divine rights 
with a high hand .  Tims did the year one thousand seven 
hundred and seventy - five conduct their Greatnesses ,  and 
myriads of small creatures — the creatures of this chronicle 
among the rest — along the roads that lay before them .  



CHAPTER n 

THE MATL 

It was the Dover road that lay .  on a Friday night late in 
November ,  before the first of the persons with whom this 
history has business .  The Dover road lay ,  as to him ,  
beyond the Dover mail ,  as it lumbered up Shooters Hill .  
He walked uphill in the mire by the side of the mail ,  as the 
rest of the passengers did  ;  not because they had the least 
relish for walking exercise ,  under the circumstances ,  but 
because the hill ,  and the harness ,  and the mud .  and the 
mail ,  were all so heavy ,  that the horses had three times 
already come to a stop ,  besides once drawing the coach 
across the road ,  with the mutinous intent of taking it back 
to Blackheath .  Reins and whip and coachman and guard ,  
however ,  in combination ,  had read that article of war which 
forbad a purpose otherwise strongly in favour of the argu -  
ment ,  that some brute animals are endued with Reason  ;  
and the team had capitulated and returned to their duty .  

With drooping heads and tremulous tails ,  they mashed 
their way through the thick mud ,  floundering and stumbling 
between whiles ,  as if they were falling to pieces at the 
larger joints .  As often as the driver rested them and 
brought them to a stand ,  with a wary  " Wo - ho  !  so - ho then !  "  
the near leader violently shook his head and everything upon 
it — like an unusually emphatic horse ,  denying that the coach 
could be got up the hill .  Whenever the leader made this 
rattle ,  the passenger started ,  as a nervous passenger might ,  
and was disturbed in mind .  

There was a steaming mist in all the hollows ,  and it had 
roamed in its forlornness up the hill ,  like an evil spirit ,  
seeking rest and finding none .  A clammy and intensely 
cold mist ,  it made its slow way through the air in ripples 
that visibly followed and overspread one another ,  as the 
waves of an unwholesome sea might do .  It was dense 



MAIL - COACH PASSENGERS 1 9 

enough to shut out eve ly thing from the light of the coach -  
lamps hut these its own workings ,  and a few yards of road  ;  
and the reek of the labouring horses steamed into it ,  as if 
they had made it all .  

Two other passengers ,  besides the one ,  were plodding up 
the hill by the side of the mail .  All three were wrapped 
to the cheek - bones and over the ears ,  and wore jack - boots .  
Not one of the three could have said ,  from anything he saw ,  
what either of the other two was like  ;  and each was 
hidden under almost as many wrappers from the ej T es of the 
mind ,  as from the eyes of the body ,  of his two companions .  
In those days ,  travellers were very shy of being confidential 
on a short notice ,  for anybody on the road might be a robber 
or in league with robbers .  As to the latter ,  when every 
posting - house and ale - house could produce somebody in 
 " the Captains "  pay ,  ranging from the landlord to the 
lowest stable nondescript ,  it was the likeliest thing upon 
the cards .  So the guard of the Dover mail thought to him -  
self ,  that Friday night in November ,  one thousand seven 
hundred and seventy - five ,  lumbering up Shooters Hill ,  
as he stood on his own particular perch behind the mail ,  
beating his feet ,  and keeping an eye and a hand on the 
arm - chest before him ,  where a loaded blunderbuss lay at 
the top of six or eight loaded horse - pistols ,  deposited on 
a substratum of cutlass .  

The Dover mail was in its usual genial position that the 
guard suspected the passengers ,  the passengers suspected one 
another and the guard ,  they all suspected everybody else ,  
and the coachman was sure of nothing but the horses  ;  as to 
which cattle he could with a clear conscience have taken his 
oath on the two Testaments that they were not fit for the 
journey .  

 " Wo - ho !  "  said the coachman .   " So ,  then !  One more 
pull and youre at the top and be damned to you ,  for I have 
had trouble enough to get you to it  !  — Joe  !   "  

 "  Halloa  !   "  the guard replied .  

 "  What oclock do you make it ,  Joe ?  "  

 " Ten minutes ,  good ,  past eleven .  "  

 "  My blood  !   "  ejaculated the vexed coachman ,   "  and not 
atop of Shooters yet  !  Tst  !  Yah  !  Get on with you  !   "  

The emphatic horse ,  cut short by the whip in a most 
decided negative ,  made a decided scramble for it ,  and the 
three other horses followed suit .  Once more ,  the Dover 



20 A TALK OF TWO CITIES 

mail struggled on ,  with the jack - hoots of its passengers 
squashing along hy its side .  They had stopped when the 
coach stopped ,  and they kept close company with it .  If 
any one of the three had had the hardihood to propose to 
another to walk on a little ahead into the mist and darkness ,  
he would have put himself in a fair way of getting shot 
instantly as a highwayman .  

The last burst carried the mail to the summit of the hill .  
The horses stopped to breathe again ,  and the guard got 
down to skid the wheel for the descent ,  and open the 
coach - door to let the passengers in .  

 "  Tst  !  Joe  !   "  cried the coachman in a warning voice ,  
looking down from his box .  

 "  What do you say ,  Tom ?  "  

They both listened .  

 " I say a horse at a canter coming up ,  Joe .  

 " i "  say a horse at a gallop ,  Tom ,  "  returned the guard ,  
leaving his hold of the door ,  and mounting nimbly to his 
place .   "  Gentlemen  !  In the kings name ,  all of you  !   "  

With this hurried adjuration ,  he cocked his blunderbuss ,  
and stood on the offensive .  

The passenger booked by this history ,  was on the coach -  
step ,  getting in  ;  the two other passengers were close behind 
him .  and about to follow .  He remained on the step ,  half 
in the coach and half out of it  ;  they remained in the road 
below him .  They all looked from the coachman to the 
guard ,  and from the guard to the coachman ,  and listened .  
The coachman looked back and the guard looked back ,  and 
even the emphatic leader pricked up his ears and looked 
back ,  without contradicting .  

The stillness consequent on the cessation of the rumbling 
and labouring of the coach ,  added to the stillness of the 
night ,  made it very quiet indeed .  The panting -  of the horses 
communicated a tremulous motion to the coach ,  as if it 
were in a state of agitation .  The hearts of the passengers 
beat loud enough perhaps to be heard  ;  but at any rate ,  the 
quiet pause was audibly expressive of people out of breath ,  
and holding the breath ,  and having the pulses quickenr*l 
by expectation .  

The sound of a horse at a gallop came fast and furiousl} -  
up the hill .  

 "  So - ho  !   "  the guard sang out ,  as loud as he could roar .  
 "  Yo there  !  Stand  !  I shall tire  !   "  



A MESSENGER ON HORSEBACK 21 

The pace was suddenly checked ,  and ,  with much splashing 
and floundering ,  a mans voice called from the mist ,   "  Is 
that the Dover mail? "  

 " Never you mind what it is? "  the guard retorted .  
 " What are you? "  

 "  Is that the Dover mail ?  "  

 "  Why do you want to know ?  "  .  

 " I want a passenger ,  if it is .  "  

 "  What passenger ?  "  

 " Mr .  Jarvis Lorry .  "  

Our booked passenger showed in a moment that it was 
his name .  The guard ,  the coachman ,  and the two other 
passengers eyed him distrustfully .  

 "  Keep where you are ,  "  the guard called to the voice in 
the mist ,   "  because ,  if I should make a mistake ,  it could 
never be set right in your lifetime .  Gentleman of the 
name of Lorry answer straight .  "  

 " What is the matter? "  asked the passenger ,  then ,  with 
mildly quavering speech .   "  Who wants me ? Is it Jerry ?  "  

 (  " I dont like Jerrys voice ,  if it is Jerry ,  "  growled the 
guard to himself .   "  Hes hoarser than suits me ,  is Jerry .  "  )  

 " Yes ,  Mr .  Lorry .  "  

 " What is the matter? "  

 "  A despatch sent after you from over yonder .  T .  and Co .  "  

 "  I know this messenger ,  guard ,  "  said Mr .  Lorry ,  getting 
down into the road— assisted from behind more swiftly 
than politely by the other two passengers ,  who immediately 
scrambled into the coach ,  shut the door ,  and pulled up the 
window .   "  He may come close  ;  theres nothing wrong .  "  

 "  I hope there aint ,  but I cant make so Nation sure of 
that ,  "  said the guard ,  in gruff soliloquy .   "  Hallo you  !   "  

 "  Well  !  And hallo you  !   "  said Jerry ,  more hoarsely than 
before .  

 "  Come on at a footpace  !  dye mind me ? And if youve 
got holsters to that saddle o yourn ,  dont let me see your 
hand go nigh em .  For Im a devil at a quick mistake ,  
and when I make one it takes the form of Lead .  So now 
lets look at you .  "  

The figures of a horse and rider came slowly through the 
eddying mist ,  and came to the side of the mail ,  where the 
passenger stood .  The rider stooped ,  and ,  casting up his 
eyes at the guard ,  handed the passenger a small folded 
paper .  The riders horse was blown ,  and both horse and 



22 A TALE OF TWO CITIES 

rider were covered with mud ,  from the hoofs of the horse 
to the hat of the man .  

 "  Guard  !   "  said the passenger ,  in a tone of quiet business 
confidence .  

The watchful guard ,  with his right hand at the stock of 
his raised blunderbuss ,  his left at the barrel ,  and his eye on 
the horseman ,  answered curtly ,   " Sir .  "  

 " There is nothing to apprehend .  I belong to Tellsons 
Bank .  You must know Tellsons Bank in London .  I am 
going to Paris on business .  A crown to drink .  I may read 
this ?  "  

If so be as youre quick ,  sir .  "  

He opened it in the light of the coach - lamp on that side ,  
and read — first to himself and then aloud :  "   Wait at Dover 
for Mamselle .  Its not long ,  you see ,  guard .  Jerry ,  say 
that my answer was ,  recalled to life .  "  

Jerry started in his saddle .   " Thats a Blazing strange 
answer ,  too ,  "  said he ,  at his hoarsest .  

 " Take that message back ,  and they will know tliat I 
received this ,  as well as if I wrote .  Make the best of your 
way .  Good night .  "  

With those words the passenger opened the coach - door 
and got in  ;  not at all assisted by his fellow - passengers ,  who 
had expeditiously secreted their watches and purses in their 
boots ,  and were now making a general pretence of being 
asleep .  With no more definite purpose than to escape the 
hazard of originating any other kind of action .  

The coach lumbered on again ,  with heavier wreaths of 
mist closing round it as it began the descent .  The guard 
soon replaced his blunderbuss in his arm - chest ,  and ,  having 
looked to the rest of its contents ,  and having looked to the 
supplementary pistols that he wore in his belt ,  looked to 
a smaller chest beneath his seat ,  in which there were a few 
smiths tools ,  a couple of torches ,  and a tinder - box .  For he 
was furnished with that completeness that if the coach - lamps 
had been blown and stormed out ,  which did occasionally 
happen ,  he had only to shut himself up inside ,  keep the 
Hint and steel sparks well off the straw ,  and get a light with 
tolerable safety and ease  ( if he were lucky )  in five minutes .  

 " Tom  !   "  softly over the coach - roof .  

 "  Hallo ,  Joe .  "  

 "  Did you hear the message ?  "  

 " I did ,  Joe .  "  




A BLAZING STRANGE MESSAGE 25 

 " What did you make of it ,  Tom ?  "  

 " Nothing at all ,  Joe .  "  

 " Thats a coincidence ,  too ,  "  the guard mused ,   " for I made 
the same of it myself .  "  

Jerry ,  left alone in the mist and darkness ,  dismounted 
meanwhile ,  not only to ease his spent horse ,  but to wipe 
the mud from his face ,  and shake the wet out of his hat -  
brim ,  which might be capable of holding about half a gallon .  
After standing with the bridle over his heavily  - splashed arm ,  
until the wheels of the mail were no longer within hearing 
and the night was quite still again ,  he turned to walk down 
the hill .  

 " After that there gallop from Temple Bar ,  old lady ,  
I wont trust your fore - legs till I get you on the level ,  "  said 
this hoarse messenger ,  glancing at his mare .   " Kecalled 
to life .  Thats a Blazing strange message .  Much of that 
wouldnt do for you ,  Jerry  !  I say ,  Jerry  !  Youd be in 
a Blazing bad way ,  if recalling to life was to come into 
fashion ,  Jerry  !   "  



CHAPTER III 

THE NIGHT SHADOWS 

A .  wonderful fact tu reflect upon ,  that every human creature 
is constituted to be that profound secret and mystery to 
every other .  A solemn consideration ,  when I enter a great 
city by night ,  that eveiy one of those darkly clustered 
houses encloses its own secret  ;  that eveiy room in every 
one of them encloses its own secret  ;  that every beating 
heart in the hundreds of thousands of breasts there ,  is ,  in 
some of its imaginings ,  a secret to the heart nearest it  !  
Something of the awfulness .  even of Death itself ,  is referable 
to this .  No more can I turn the leaves of this dear book 
that I loved ,  and vainly hope in time to read it all .  No 
more can I look into the depths of this unfathomable water ,  
wherein ,  as momentary lights glanced into it ,  I have had 
glimpses of buried treasure and other things submerged ,  
ft was appointed that the book should shut with a spring ,  
for ever and for ever ,  when I had read but a page .  It was 
appointed that the water should be locked in an eternal 
frost ,  when the light was playing on its surface ,  and I stood 
in ignoi - ance on the shore .  My friend is dead ,  my neighbour 
is dead ,  my love ,  the darling of my soul ,  is dead  ;  it is the 
inexorable consolidation and perpetuation of the secret that 
was always in that individuality ,  and which I shall carry in 
mine to my lifes end .  In any of the burial - places of this 
city through which I pass ,  is there a sleeper more inscrutable 
than its busy inhabitants are ,  in their innermost personality ,  
to me ,  or than I am to them ? 

As to this ,  his natural and not to be alienated inheritance ,  
the messenger on horseback had exactly the same possessions 
as the King ,  the first Minister of State ,  or the richest mer -  
chant in London .  So with the three passengers shut up in 
the narrow compass of one lumbering old mail coach : they 
were mysteries to one another ,  as complete as if each had 



HUMAN INSCRUTABILITY 27 

been in his own coach and six ,  or his own coach and sixty ,  
with the breadth of a county between him and the next .  

The messenger rode back at an easy trot ,  stopping pretty 
often at ale - houses by the way to drink ,  but evincing a 
tendency to keep his own counsel ,  and to keep his hat 
cocked over his eyes .  He had eyes that assorted very well 
with that decoration ,  being of a surface black ,  with no depth 
in the colour or form ,  and much too near together — as if 
they were afraid of being found out in something ,  singly ,  
if they kept too far apart .  They had a sinister expression ,  
under an old cocked - hat like a three - cornered spittoon ,  and 
over a great muffler for the chin and throat ,  which descended 
nearly to the wearers knees .  When he stopped for drink ,  
he moved this muffler with his left hand ,  only while he 
poured his liquor in with his right  ;  as soon as that was 
done ,  he muffled again .  

 "  No ,  Jerry ,  no  !   "  said the messenger ,  harping on one 
theme as he rode .   "  It wouldnt do for you ,  Jerry .  Jerry ,  
you honest tradesman ,  it wouldnt suit your line of busi -  
ness  !  Kecalled —  !  Bust me if I dont think hed been a 
drinking  !   "  

His message pei - plexed his mind to that degree that he 
was fain ,  several times ,  to take off his hat to scratch his head .  
Except on the crown ,  which was raggedly bald ,  he had stiff ,  
black hair ,  standing jaggedly all over it ,  and growing down 
hill almost to his broad ,  blunt nose .  It was so like smiths 
work ,  so much more like the top of a strongly spiked wall 
than a head of hair ,  that the best of players at leap - frog 
might have declined him ,  as the most dangerous man in the 
world to go over .  

While he trotted back with the message he was to deliver 
to the night watchman in his box at the door of Tellsons 
Bank ,  by Temple Bar ,  who was to deliver it to greater 
authorities within ,  the shadows of the night took such shapes 
to him as arose out of the message ,  and took such shapes 
to the mare as arose out of her private topics of uneasiness .  
They seemed to be numerous ,  for she shied at every shadow 
on the road .  

What time ,  the mail - coach lumbered ,  jolted ,  rattled ,  and 
bumped upon its tedious way .  with its three fellow - inscru -  
tables inside .  To whom ,  likewise ,  the shadows of the night 
revealed themselves ,  in the forms their dozing eyes and 
wandering thoughts suggested .  



28 A TALE OF TWO CITIES 

Tellsons Bank had a run upon it in the mail .  As the 
bank passenger — with an arm drawn through the leathern 
strap ,  which did what lay in it to keep him from pounding 
against the next passenger ,  and driving him into his corner ,  
whenever the coach got a special jolt — nodded in his place ,  
with half - shut eyes ,  the little coach - windows ,  and the coach -  
lamp dimly gleaming through them ,  and the bulky bundle 
of opposite passenger ,  became the bank ,  and did a great stroke 
of business .  The rattle of the harness was the chink of 
money ,  and more drafts were honoured in five minutes than 
even Tellsons ,  with all its foreign and home connexion ,  ever 
paid in thrice the time .  Then the strong - rooms underground ,  
at Tellsons ,  with such of their valuable stores and secrets 
as were known to the passenger  ( and it was not a little that 
he knew about them )  ,  opened before him ,  and he went in 
among them with the great keys and the feebly - burning 
candle ,  and found them safe ,  and strong ,  and sound ,  and 
still ,  just as he had last seen them .  

But ,  though the bank was almost always with him ,  and 
though the coach  ( in a confused way ,  like the presence of 
pain under an opiate )  was always with him ,  there was 
another current of impression that never ceased to run ,  all 
through the night .  He was on his way to dig some one out 
of a grave .  

Now ,  which of the multitude of faces that showed them -  
selves before him was the true face of the buried person ,  the 
shadows of the night did not indicate  ;  but they were all the 
faces of a man of five - and - forty by years ,  and they differed 
principally in the passions they expressed ,  and in the ghast -  
liness of their worn and wasted state .  Pride ,  contempt ,  
defiance ,  stubbornness ,  submission ,  lamentation ,  succeeded 
one another  ;  so did varieties of sunken cheek ,  cadaverous 
colour ,  emaciated hands and figures .  But the face •was in 
the main one face ,  and every head was prematurely white .  
A hundred times the dozing passenger inquired of this spectre: 

 "  Buried how long?  "  

The answer was always the same: Almost eighteen years .  "  

 "  You had abandoned all hope of being dug out? "  

 "  Long ago .  "  

 " You know that vou are recalled to life? "  

 " They tell me so .  "  

 "  I hope you care to live ?  "  

 " I cant say .  "  



e 



EIGHTEEN YEARS BURIED 29 

 "  Shall I show her to you ? Will you come and see her ?  "  

The answers to this question were various and contra -  
dictory .  Sometimes the broken reply was ,   "  Wait  !  It 
would kill me if I saw her too soon .  "  Sometimes ,  it was 
given in a tender rain of tears ,  and then it was  "  Take me 
to her .  "  Sometimes it was staring and bewildered ,  and then 
it was ,   " I dont know her .  I dont understand .  "  

After such imaginary discourse ,  the passenger in his fancy 
would dig ,  and dig ,  dig — now ,  with a spade ,  now with a 
great key ,  now with his hands — to dig this wretched creature 
out .  Got out at last ,  with earth hanging about his face and 
hair ,  he would suddenly fall away to dust .  The passenger 
would then start to himself ,  and lower the window ,  to get 
the reality of mist and rain on his cheek .  

Yet even when his eyes were opened on the mist and rain ,  
on the moving patch of light from the lamps ,  and the hedge 
at the roadside retreating by jerks ,  the night shadows outside 
the coach would fall into the train of the night shadows 
within .  The real Banking - house by Temple Bar ,  the real 
business of the past day ,  the real strong - rooms ,  the real 
express sent after him ,  and the real message returned ,  would 
all be there .  Out of the midst of them ,  the ghostly face 
would rise ,  and he would accost it again .  

 "  Buried how long ?  "  

 " Almost eighteen years .  "  

 "  I hope you care to live ?  "  

 " I cant say .  "  

Dig — dig — dig — until an impatient movement from one 
of the two passengers would admonish him to pull up the 
window ,  draw his arm securely through the leathern strap ,  
and speculate upon the two slumbering forms ,  until his 
mind lost its hold of them ,  and they again slid away into 
the bank and the grave .  

 " Buried how long? "  

 "  Almost eighteen years .  "  

 "  You had abandoned all hope of being dug out ?  "  

 " Long ago .  "  

The words were still in his hearing as just spoken — dis -  
tinctly in his hearing as ever spoken words had been in his 
life— when the weary passenger started to the consciousness 
of daylight ,  and found that the shadows of the night were 
gone .  

He lowered the window ,  and looked out at the rising sun .  



30 A TALE OF TWO CITIES 

There was a ridge of ploughed land ,  with a plough upon 
it where it had been left last night when the horses were 
unyoked  ;  beyond ,  a quiet coppice - wood ,  in which many 
leaves of burning red and golden yellow still remained upon 
the trees .  Though the earth was cold and wet ,  the sky was 
clear ,  and the sun rose bright ,  placid ,  and beautiful .  

 "  Eighteen years  !   "  said the passenger ,  looking at the sun .  
 "  Gracious Creator of day  !  To be buried alive for eighteen 
years  !   "  



CHAPTER IV 

THE PREPARATION 

When the mail got successfully to Dover ,  in the course of 
the forenoon ,  the head drawer at the Royal George Hotel 
opened the coach - door as his custom was .  He did it with 
some flourish of ceremony ,  for a mail journey from London 
in winter was an achievement to congratulate an adventurous 
traveller upon .  

By that time ,  there was only one adventurous traveller left 
to be congratulated  ;  for the two others had been set down 
at their respective roadside destinations .  The mildewy inside 
of the coach ,  with its damp and dirty straw ,  its disagreeable 
smell ,  and its obscurity ,  was rather like a larger dog - kennel .  
Mr .  Lorry ,  the passenger ,  shaking himself out of it in chains 
of straw ,  a tangle of shaggy wrapper ,  napping hat ,  and 
muddy legs ,  was rather like a larger sort of dog .  

 "  There will be a packet to Calais ,  to - morrow ,  drawer? "  

 "  Yes ,  sir ,  if the weather holds and the wind sets tolerable 
fair .  The tide will serve pretty nicely at about two in the 
afternoon ,  sir .  Bed ,  sir ?  "  

 "  I shall not go to bed till night  ;  but I want a bedroom ,  
and a barber .  "  

 " And then breakfast ,  sir? Yes ,  sir .  That way ,  sir ,  if 
you please .  Show Concord  !  Gentlemans valise and hot 
water to Concord .  Pull off gentlemans boots in Concord .  
 ( You will find a fine sea - coal fire ,  sir .  )  Fetch barber to 
Concord .  Stir about there ,  now ,  for Concord  !   "  

The Concord bed - chamber being always assigned to a 
passenger by the mail ,  and passengers by the mail being 
always heavily wrapped up from head to foot ,  the room had 
the odd interest for the establishment of the Royal George ,  
that although but one kind of man was seen to go into it ,  
all kinds and varieties of men came out of it .  Consequently ,  
another drawer ,  and two porters ,  and  . several maids and the 



32 A TALE OV TWO CITIES 

landlady ,  were all loitering by accident at various points of 
the road between the Concord and the coffee - room ,  when 
a gentleman of sixty ,  formally dressed in a brown suit of 
clothes ,  pretty well worn ,  but very well kept ,  with large 
square cuffs and large flaps to the pockets ,  passed along on 
his way to his breakfast .  

The coffee - room had no other occupant ,  that forenoon ,  
than the gentleman in brown .  His breakfast - table was drawn 
before the fire ,  and as he sat ,  with its light shining on him ,  
waiting for the meal ,  he sat so still ,  that he might have been 
sitting for his portrait .  

Very orderly and methodical he looked ,  with a hand on 
each knee ,  and a loud watch ticking a sonorous sermon under 
his napped waistcoat ,  as though it pitted its gravity and 
longevity against the levity and evanescence of the brisk fire .  
He had a good leg ,  and was a little vain of it ,  for his brown 
stockings fitted sleek and close ,  and were of a fine texture  ;  
his shoes and buckles ,  too .  though plain ,  were trim .  He 
wore an odd little sleek crisp flaxen wig ,  setting very close 
to his head : which wig ,  it is to be presumed ,  was made of 
hair ,  but which looked far more as though it were spun from 
filaments of silk or glass .  His linen ,  though not of a fineness 
in accordance with his stockings ,  was as white as the tops of 
the waves that broke upon the neighbouring beach ,  or the 
specks of sail that glinted in the sunlight far at sea .  A face 
habitually suppressed and quieted ,  was still lighted up under 
the quaint wig by a pair of moist bright eyes that it must 
have cost their owner ,  in years gone by ,  some pains to drill 
to the composed and reserved expression of Tellsons Bank .  
He had a healthy colour in his cheeks ,  and his face ,  though 
lined ,  bore few traces of anxiety .  But ,  perhaps the con -  
fidential bachelor clerks in Tellsons Bank were principally 
occupied with the cares of other people  ;  and perhaps 
second - hand cares ,  like second - hand clothes ,  come easily off 
and on .  

Completing his resemblance to a man who was sitting for 
his portrait ,  Mr .  Lorry dropped off to sleep .  The arrival of 
his breakfast roused him ,  and he said to the drawer ,  as he 
moved his chair to it : 

 "  I wish accommodation prepared for a young lady who 
may come here at any time to - day .  She may ask for 
Mr .  Jarvis Lorry ,  or she may only ask for a gentleman from 
Tellsons Bank .  Please to let me know .  "  



AN EXPECTED TRAVELLER 33 

 " Yes .  sir .  Tellsons Bank in London ,  sir? "  

 " Yes .  "  

 "  Yes ,  sir .  We have oftentimes the honour to entertain 
your gentlemen in their travelling backwards and forwards 
betwixt London and Paris ,  sir .  A vast deal of travelling ,  
sir ,  in Tellson and Companys House .  "  

 " Yes .  We are quite a French House ,  as well as an 
English one .  "  

 "  Yes ,  sir .  Not much in the habit of such travelling 
yourself ,  I think ,  sir ?  "  

 " Not of late years .  It is fifteen years since we — since 
I — came last from France .  "  

 "  Indeed ,  sir ? That was before my time here ,  sir .  Before 
our peoples time here ,  sir .  The George was in other hands 
at that time ,  sir .  "  

 "  I believe so .  "  

 "  But I would hold a pretty wager ,  sir ,  that a House like 
Tellson and Company was flourishing ,  a matter of fifty ,  not 
to speak of fifteen years ago ?  "  

 "  You might treble that ,  and say a hundred and fifty ,  yet 
not be far from the truth .  "  

 "  Indeed ,  sir  !   "  

Rounding his mouth and both his eyes ,  as he stepped 
backward from the table ,  the waiter shifted his napkin from 
his right arm to his left ,  dropped into a comfortable attitude ,  
and stood surveying the guest while he ate and drank ,  as 
from an observatory or watch - tower .  According to the 
immemorial usage of waiters in all ages .  

When Mr .  Lorry had finished his breakfast ,  he went out 
for a stroll on the beach .  The little narrow ,  crooked town 
of Dover hid itself away from the beach ,  and ran its head 
into the chalk cliffs ,  like a marine ostrich .  The beach was 
a desert of heaps of sea and stones tumbling wildly about ,  
and the sea did what it liked ,  and what it liked was destruc -  
tion .  It thundered at the town ,  and thundered at the cliffs ,  
and brought the coast down ,  madly .  The air among the 
houses was of so strong a piscatoiy flavour that one might 
have supposed sick fish went up to be dipped in it ,  as sick 
people went down to be dipped in the sea .  A little fishing -  
was done in the port ,  and a quantity of strolling about by 
night ,  and looking seaward : particularly at those times 
when the tide made ,  and was near flood .  Small tradesmen ,  
who did no business whatever ,  sometimes unaccountably 
1 .  B 



34 A TALE OF TWO CITIES 

realised large fortunes ,  and it was remarkable that nobody 
in the neighbourhood could endure a lamplighter .  

As the day declined into the afternoon ,  and the air ,  which 
had been at intervals clear enough to allow the French coast 
to be seen ,  became again charged with mist and vapour ,  
Mr .  Lorrys thoughts seemed to cloud too .  When it was 
dark ,  and he sat before the coffee - room fire ,  awaiting his 
dinner as he had awaited his breakfast ,  his mind was busily 
digging ,  digging ,  digging ,  in the live red coals .  

A bottle of good claret after dinner does a digger in the 
red coals no harm ,  otherwise than as it has a tendency tu 
throw him out of work .  Mr .  Lorry had been idle a long 
time ,  and had just poured out his last glassful of wine with 
as complete an appearance of satisfaction as is ever to be 
found in an elderly gentleman of a fresh complexion who 
has got to the end of a bottle ,  when a rattling of wheels 
came up the narrow street ,  and rumbled into the inn - 3ard .  

He set down his glass untouched .   "  This is Mamselle  !   "  
said he .  

In a very few minutes the waiter came in to announce 
that Miss Manette had arrived from London ,  and would be 
happy to see the gentleman from Tellsons .  

 " So soon? "  

Miss Manette had taken some refreshment on the road ,  
and required none then ,  and was extremely anxious to see 
the gentleman from Tellsons immediately ,  if it suited his 
pleasure and convenience .  

The gentleman from Tellsons had nothing left for it but 
to empty his glass with an air of stolid desperation ,  settle 
his odd little flaxen wig at the ears ,  and follow the waiter 
to Miss Manettes apartment .  It was a large ,  dark room ,  
furnished in a funereal manner with black horsehair ,  and 
loaded with heavy dark tables .  These had been oiled and 
oiled ,  until the two tall candles on the table in the middle 
of the room were gloomily reflected on every leaf : as if they 
were buried ,  in deep graves of black mahogany ,  and no light 
to speak of could be expected from them until they were 
dug out .  

The obscurity was so difficult to penetrate that Mr .  Lorry ,  
picking his way over the well - worn Turkey carpet ,  supposed 
Miss Manette to be ,  for the moment ,  in some adjacent room ,  
until ,  having got past the two tall candles ,  he saw standing 
to receive him by the table between them and the tire ,  a 



MISS MANETTE 35 

young lady of not more than seventeen ,  in a riding - cloak ,  
and still holding her straw travelling - hat by its ribbon in 
her hand .  As his eyes rested on a short ,  slight ,  pretty 
figure ,  a quantity of golden hair ,  a pair of blue eyes that 
met his own with an inquiring look ,  and a forehead with 
a singular capacity  ( remembering how young and smooth it 
was )  of lifting and knitting itself into an expression that 
was not quite one of perplexity ,  or wonder ,  or alarm ,  or 
merely of a bright fixed attention ,  though it included all 
the four expressions — as his eyes rested on these things ,  
a sudden vivid likeness passed before him ,  of a child whom 
he had held in his arms on the passage across that very 
Channel ,  one cold time ,  when the hail drifted heavily and 
the sea ran high .  The likeness passed away ,  like a breath 
along the surface of the gaunt pier - glass behind her ,  on the 
frame of which ,  a hospital procession of negro cupids ,  several 
headless and all cripples ,  were offering black baskets of Dead 
Sea fruit to black divinities of the feminine gender — and he 
made his formal bow to Miss Manette .  

 " Pray take a seat ,  sir .  "  In a very clear and pleasant 
young voice  ;  a little foreign in its accent ,  but a very little 
indeed .  

 " I kiss your hand ,  miss ,  "  said Mr .  Lorry ,  with the 
manners of an earlier date ,  as he made his formal bow again ,  
and took his seat .  

 "  I received a letter from the Bank ,  sir ,  yesterday ,  in -  
forming me that some intelligence — or discovery  "  

 The word is not material ,  miss  ;  either word will 
do .  "  

 "  — respecting the small property of my poor father ,  whom 
I never saw — so long dead  "  

Mr .  Lorry moved in his chair ,  and cast a troubled look 
towards the hospital procession of negro cupids .  As if they 
had any help for anybody in their absurd baskets  !  

 "  — rendered it necessary that I should go to Paris ,  there 
to communicate with a gentleman of the Bank ,  so good as 
to be despatched to Paris for the purpose .  "  

 " Myself .  "  

 " As I was prepared to hear ,  sir .  "  

She curtseyed to him  ( young ladies made curtseys in 
those days )  ,  with a pretty desire to convey to him that she 
felt how much older and wiser he was than she .  He made 
her another bow .  



36 A TALE OF TWO CITIES 

 " I replied to the Bank ,  sir ,  that as it was considered 
necessary ,  by those who know ,  and who are so kind as to 
advise me ,  that I should go to France ,  and that as I am 
an orphan and have no friend who could go with me ,  I should 
esteem it highly if I might be permitted to place myself ,  
during the journey ,  under that worthy gentlemans protec -  
tion .  The gentleman had left London ,  but I think a 
messenger was sent after him to beg the favour of his wait -  
ing for me here ,  "  

 " I was happy ,  "  said Mr .  Lorry ,   " to be entrusted with 
the charge .  I shall be more happy to execute it .  "  

 " Sir ,  I thank you indeed .  I thank you very gratefully .  
It was told me by the Bank that the gentleman would 
explain to me the details of the business ,  and that I must 
prepare myself to find them of a surprising nature .  I have 
done my best to prepare myself ,  and I naturally have a strong 
and eager interest to know what they are .  "  

 "  Naturally ,  "  said Mr .  Loriy .   "  Yes— I  "  

After a pause ,  he added ,  again settling the crisp flaxen 
wig at the ears : 

 " It is very difficult to begin .  "  

He did not begin ,  but ,  in his indecision ,  met her glance .  
The young forehead lifted itself into that singular expression 
— but it was pretty and characteristic ,  besides being singular 
■ — and she raised her hand ,  as if with an involuntary action 
she caught at ,  or stayed some passing shadow .  

 "  Are you quite a stranger to me ,  sir? "  

 " Am I not? "  Mr .  Lorry opened his hands ,  and ex -  
tended them outwards with an argumentative smile .  

Between the eyebrows and just over the little feminine 
nose ,  the line of which was as delicate and fine as it was 
possible to be ,  the expression deepened itself as she took her 
seat thoughtfully in the chair by which she had hitherto 
remained standing .  He watched her as she mused ,  and the 
moment she raised her eyes again ,  went on : 

 " In your adopted country ,  I presume ,  I cannot do better 
than address you as a young English lady ,  Miss Manette ?  "  

 "  If you please ,  sir .  "  

 "  Miss Manette ,  I am a man of business .  I have a 
business charge to acquit myself of .  In your reception of 
it ,  dont heed me any more than if I was a speaking machine 
— truly ,  I am not much eke .  I will ,  with your leave ,  relate 
to you .  miss ,  the story of one of our customers .  "  



THE INTERVIEW 37 

 "  Story  !   "  

He seemed wilfully to mistake the word she had repeated ,  
when he added ,  in a hurry ,   "  Yes ,  customers  ;  in the hanking 
business we usually call our connexion our customers .  He 
was a French gentleman  ;  a scientific gentleman  ;  a man of 
great acquirements — a Doctor .  "  

 "  Not of Beauvais ?  "  

 " Why ,  yes ,  of Beauvais .  Like Monsieur Manette .  your 
father ,  the gentleman was of Beauvais .  Like Monsieur 
Manette ,  your father ,  the gentleman was of repute in Paris .  
I had the honour of knowing him there .  Our relations 
were business relations ,  but confidential .  I was at that 
time in our French House ,  and had been — oh  !  twenty 
years .  "  

 " At that time — I may ask ,  at what time ,  sir? "  

 "  I speak ,  miss ,  of twenty years ago .  He married — an 
English lady — and I was one of the trustees .  His affairs ,  
like the affairs of many other French gentlemen and French 
families ,  were entirely in Tellsons hands .  In a similar way 
I am ,  or I have been ,  trustee of one kind or other for scores 
of our customers .  These are mere business relations ,  miss  ;  
there is no friendship in them ,  no particular interest ,  nothing 
like sentiment .  I have passed from one to another ,  in the 
course of my business life ,  just as I pass from one of our 
customers to another in the course of my business day  ;  in 
short ,  I have no feelings  ;  I am a mere machine .  To go 
on  "  

 "  But this is my fathers story ,  sir  ;  and I begin to think  "  
— the curiously roughened forehead was very intent upon 
him —  "  that when I was left an orphan through my mothers 
surviving my father only two years ,  it was you who brought 
me to England .  I am almost sure it was you .  "  

Mr .  Lorry took the hesitating little hand that confidingly 
advanced to take his ,  and he put it with some ceremony to 
his lips .  He then conducted the young lady straightway to 
her chair again ,  and ,  holding the chair - back with his left 
hand ,  and using his right by turns to rub his chin ,  pull his 
wig at the ears ,  or point what he said ,  stood looking down 
into her face while she sat looking up into his .  

 " Miss Manette .  it was I .  And you will see how truly 
I spoke of myself just now ,  in saying I had no feelings ,  and 
that all the relations I hold with my fellow - creatures are 
mere business relations ,  when you reflect that I have never 



38 A TALE OF TWO CITIES 

sean you since .  No ;  you have been the ward of Tellson s 
House since ,  and I have been busy with the other business 
of Tellson s House since .  Feelings  !  I have no time for 
them ,  no chance of them .  I pass my whole life ,  miss ,  
in turning an immense pecuniary Mangle .  "  

After this odd description of his daily routine of employ -  
ment .  Mr .  Lorry flattened his flaxen wig upon his head with 
both hands  ( which was most unnecessary ,  for nothing could 
be natter than its shining surface was before )  ,  and resumed 
his former attitude .  

 " So far ,  miss  ( as you have remarked )  ,  this is the stoiy of 
your regretted father .  Now comes the difference .  If your 

father had not died when he did Dont be frightened  !  

How you start  !   "  

She did ,  indeed ,  start .  And she caught his wrist with 
both her hands .  

 "  Pray ,  "  said Mr .  Lorry ,  in a soothing tone ,  bringing his 
left hand from the back of the chair to lay it on the sup -  
plicatory fingers that clasped him in so violent a tremble : 
pray control your agitation — a matter of business .  As 
I was saying  "  

Her look so discomposed him that he stopped ,  wandered ,  
and began anew : 

 "  As I was saying  ;  if Monsieur Manette had not died  ;  
if he had suddenly and silently disappeared  ;  if he had been 
spirited away  ;  if it had not been difficult to guess to what 
dreadful place ,  though no art could trace him  ;  if he had an 
enemy in some compatriot who could exercise a privilege 
that I in my own time have known the boldest people 
afraid to speak of in a whisper ,  across the water there  ;  for 
instance ,  the privilege of filling up blank forms for the 
consignment of any one to the oblivion of a prison for any 
length of time  ;  if his wife had implored the king ,  the 
queen ,  the court ,  the clergy ,  for any tidings of him .  and all 
quite hi vain  ; — then the history of your father would have 
been the history of this unfortunate gentleman ,  the Doctor 
of Beauvais .  "  

 " I entreat you to tell me more ,  sir .  "  

• I will .  I am going to .  You can bear it ?  "  

 "  I can bear anything but the uncertainty you leave me in 
at this moment .  "  

 " You speak collectedly ,  and you — are collected .  Thats 
good  !   "   ( Though his manner was lees satisfied than his 



A MATTER OF BUSINESS 39 

words .  )   . A matter of business .  Regard it as a matter 
of business— business that must be done .  Now if this 
doctors wife ,  though a lady of great courage and spirit ,  had 
suffered so intensely from this cause before her little child 
was born  "  

 "  The little child was a daughter ,  sir ?  "  

 " A daughter .  A — a — matter of business — dont be dis -  
tressed .  Miss ,  if the poor lady had suffered so intensely 
before her little child was born ,  that she came to the 
determination of sparing the poor child the inheritance 
of any part of the agony she had known the pains of ,  by 

rearing her in the belief that her father was dead No ,  

dont kneel  !  In Heavens name why should you kneel 
to me?> "  

•For the truth .  O dear ,  good ,  compassionate sir ,  for the 
truth  !   "  

••A — a matter of business .  You confuse me ,  and how 
can I transact business if I am confused ? Let us be clear -  
headed .  If you could kindly mention now ,  for instance ,  
what nine times ninepence are ,  or how many shillings in 
twenty guineas ,  it would be so encouraging .  I should be so 
much more at my ease about your state of mind .   "  

Without directly answering to this appeal ,  she sat so still 
when he had very gently raised her ,  and the hands that had 
not ceased to clasp his wrists were so much more steady 
than they had been ,  that she communicated some reassur -  
ance to Mr .  Jarvis Lorry .  

• Thats right ,  thats right .  Courage  !  Business  !  You 
have business before you  ;  useful business .  Miss Manette ,  
your mother took this course with you .  And when she 
died — I believe broken - hearted — having never slackened her 
unavailing search for your father ,  she h ft you ,  at two years 
old ,  to grow to be blooming ,  beautiful ,  and happy ,  without 
the dark cloud upon you of living in uncertainty whether 
your father soon wore his heart out in prison ,  or wasted 
there through many lingering years .  "  

As he said the words he looked down ,  with an admiring 
pity ,  on the flowing golden hair  ;  as if he pictured to him -  
self that it might have been already tinged with grey .  

 " • You know that your parents had no great possession ,  
and that what they had was secured to your mother and 
to you .  Thoi^ has been no new discovery ,  of money ,  or of 
any other property ;  but  "  



40 A TALE OF TWO CITIES 

He felt his wrist held closer ,  and he stopped .  The 
expression in the forehead ,  which had so particularly 
attracted his notice ,  and which was now immovable ,  had 
deepened into one of pain and horror .  

 " But he has been — been found .  He is alive .  Greatly 
changed ,  it is too probable  ;  almost a wreck ,  it is possible  ;  
though we will hope the best .  Still ,  alive .  Your father 
has been taken to the house of an old servant in Paris ,  and 
we are going there : I ,  to identify him if I can : you ,  to 
restore him to life ,  love ,  duty ,  rest ,  comfort .  "  

A shiver ran through her frame ,  and from it through his .  
She said ,  in a low ,  distinct ,  awe - stricken voice ,  as if she 
were saying it in a dream ,  

 " I am going to see his Ghost  !  It will be his Ghost — 
not him  !   "  

Mr .  Lorry quietly chafed the hands that held his arm .  
 "  There ,  there ,  there  !  See now ,  see now  !  The best and 
the worst are known to you ,  now .  You are well on your 
way to the poor wronged gentleman ,  and ,  with a fair sea 
voyage ,  and a fair land journey ,  you will be soon at his 
dear side .  "  

She repeated in the same tone ,  sunk to a whisper ,  
 " I have been free ,  I have been happy ,  yet his Ghost has 
never haunted me  !   "  

 "  Only one thing more ,  "  said Mr .  Lorry ,  laying stress 
upon it as a wholesome means of enforcing her attention : 
he has been found under another name ;  his own ,  long 
forgotten or long concealed .  It would be worse than 
useless now to inquire which  ;  worse than useless to seek 
to know whether he has been for years overlooked ,  or 
always designedly held prisoner .  It would be worse than 
 \ iseless now to make any inquiries ,  because it would be 
dangerous .  Better not to mention the subject ,  anywhere 
or in any way ,  and to remove him — for a while at all 
events — out of France .  Even I ,  safe as an Englishman ,  
and even Tellsons ,  important as they are to French credit ,  
avoid all naming of the matter .  I carry about me ,  not 
a scrap of writing openly referring to it .  This is a secret 
service altogether .  My credentials ,  entries ,  and memoranda ,  
are all comprehended in the one line ,   Recalled to Life  ;   
which may mean anything .  But what is the matter? She 
doesnt notice a word  !  Miss Manette  !   "  

Perfectly still and silent ,  and not even fallen back in her 



THE STRONG WOMAN 4 1 

chair ,  she sat under his hand ,  utterly insensible  ;  with 
her eyes open and hxed upon him ,  and with that last 
expression looking as if it were carved or branded into 
her forehead .  So close was her hold upon his arm ,  that 
he feared to detach himself lest he should hurt her  ;  therefore 
he called out loudly for assistance without moving .  

A wild - looking woman ,  whom even in his agitation ,  
Mr .  Lorry observed to be all of a red colour ,  and to have 
red hair ,  and to be dressed in some extraordinary tight -  
fitting fashion ,  and to have on her head a most wonderful 
bonnet like a Grenadier wooden measure ,  and good measure 
too ,  or a great Stilton cheese ,  came running into the room 
in advance of the inn servants ,  and soon settled the question 
of his detachment from the poor young lady ,  by laying 
a brawny hand upon his chest ,  and sending him flying back 
against the nearest wall .  

 (  " I really think this must be a man  !   "  was Mr .  Lorrys 
breathless reflection ,  simultaneously with his coming against 
the wall .  )  

 "  Why ,  look at you all  !   "  bawled this figure ,  addressing 
the inn servants .   " Why dont you go and fetch things ,  
instead of standing there staring at me ? I am not so much 
to look at ,  am I ? Why dont you go and fetch things ? 
Ill let you know ,  if you dont bring smelling - salts ,  cold 
water ,  and vinegar ,  quick ,  I will .  "  

There was an immediate dispersal for these restoratives ,  
and she softly laid the patient on a sofa ,  and tended her 
with great skill and gentleness : calling her  "  my precious  !   "  
and my bird  !   "  and spreading her golden hair aside over 
her shoulders with great pride and care .  

 " And you in brown !  "  she said ,  indignantly turning to 
Mr .  Lorry  ;   "  couldnt you tell her what you had to tell her ,  
without frightening her to death ? Look at her ,  with her 
pretty pale face and her cold hands .  Do you call that being 
a Banker ?  "  

Mr .  Lorry was so exceedingly disconcerted by a question 
so hard to answer ,  that he could only look on ,  at a distance ,  
with much feebler sympathy and humility ,  while the strong 
woman ,  having banished the inn servants under the mysterious 
penalty of letting them know  "  something not mentioned 
if they stayed there ,  staring ,  recovered her charge by a 
regular series of gradations ,  and coaxed her to lay her droop -  
ing head upon her shoulder .  

I .  h 3 



42 A TALE OF TWO CITIES 

 " I hope she will do well now ,  "  said Mr .  Lorry .  

 "  No thanks to you in brown ,  if she does .  Mv darling 
pretty  !   "  

 " I hope ,  "  said Mr .  Lorry ,  after another pause of feeble 
sympathy and humility .   "  that you accompany Miss Manette 
to France ?  "  

 "  A likely thing ,  too  !   "  replied the strong woman .  • If it 
was ever intended that I should go across salt water ,  do you 
suppose Providence would have cast my lot in an island ?  "  

This being another question hard to answer ,  Mr .  Jarvis 
Lorry withdrew to consider it .  



CHAPTER V 

THE WINE - SHOP 

A lakge cask of wine had been dropped and broken ,  in the 
street .  The accident had happened in getting it out of 
a cart  ;  the cask had tumbled out with a run ,  the hoops had 
burst ,  and it lay on the stones just outside the door of the 
wine - shop ,  shattered like a walnut - shell .  

All the people within reach had suspended their business ,  
or their idleness ,  to run to the spot and drink the wine .  
The rough ,  irregular stones of the street ,  pointing every 
way ,  and designed ,  one might have thought ,  expressly to 
lame all living creatures that approached them ,  had dammed 
it into little pools  ;  these were surrounded ,  each by its own 
jostling group or crowd ,  according to its size .  Some men 
kneeled down ,  made scoops of their two hands joined ,  and 
sipped ,  or tried to help women ,  who bent over their shoulders ,  
to sip ,  before the wine had all run out between their fingers .  
Others ,  men and women ,  dipped in the puddles with little 
mugs of mutilated earthenware ,  or even with handkerchiefs 
from womens heads ,  which were squeezed dry into infants 
mouths  ;  others made small mud embankments ,  to stem the 
wine as it ran  ;  others ,  directed by lookers - on up at high 
windows ,  darted here and there ,  to cut off little streams of 
wine that started away in new directions  ;  others devoted 
themselves to the sodden and lee - dyed pieces of the cask ,  
licking ,  and even champing the moister wine - rotted fragments 
with eager relish .  There was no drainage to carry off the 
wine ,  and not only did it all get taken up .  but so much mud 
got taken up along with it ,  that there might have been 
a scavenger in the street ,  if anybody acquainted with it 
could have believed in such a miraculous presence .  

A shrill sound of laughter and of amused voices — voices 
of men ,  women ,  and children — resounded in the street while 
this wine game lasted .  There was little roughness in the 
sport ,  and much playfulness .  There was a special companion -  



44 A TALE OF TWO CITIES 

ship in it ,  an observable inclination on the part of every one 
to join some other one ,  which led ,  especially among the 
luckier or lighter - hearted ,  to frolicsome embraces ,  drinking 
of healths ,  shaking of hands ,  and even joining of hands and 
dancing ,  a dozen together .  When the wine was gone ,  and 
the places where it had been most abundant were raked 
into a gridiron - pattern by fingers ,  these demonstrations 
ceased ,  as suddenly as they had broken out .  The man who 
had left his saw sticking in the firewood he was cutting ,  set 
it in motion again  ;  the woman who had left on a door - step 
the little pot of hot ashes ,  at which she had been trying to 
soften the pain in her own starved fingers and toes ,  or in 
those of her child ,  returned to it  ;  men with bare arms ,  
matted locks ,  and cadaverous faces ,  who had emerged into 
the winter light from cellars ,  moved away ,  to descend again  ;  
and a gloom gathered on the scene that appeared more 
natural to it than sunshine .  

The wine was red wine ,  and had stained the ground of 
the narrow street in the suburb of Saint Antoine .  in Paris ,  
where it was spilled .  It had stained many hands ,  too .  and 
many faces ,  and many naked feet ,  and many wooden shoes .  
The hands of the man who sawed the wood ,  left red marks 
on the billets  ;  and the forehead of the woman who nursed 
her baby ,  was stained with the stain of the old rag she 
wound about her head again .  Those who had been greedy 
with the staves of the cask ,  had acquired a tigerish smear 
about the mouth  ;  and one tall joker so besmirched ,  his 
head more out of a long squalid bag of a night - cap than 
in it ,  scrawled upon a wall with his finger dipped in muddy 
wine - lees — Blood .  

The time was to come ,  when that wine too would be 
spilled on the street - stones ,  and when the stain of it would 
be red upon many there .  

And now that the cloud settled on Saint Antoine .  which 
a momentary gleam had driven from his sacred countenance ,  
the darkness of it was heavy — cold ,  dirt ,  sickness ,  ignorance ,  
and want ,  were the lords in waiting on the saintly presence 
—nobles of great power all of them  ;  but ,  most especially 
the last .  Samples of a people that had undergone a terrible 
grinding and re - grinding in the mill ,  and certainly not in 
the fabulous mill which ground old people young ,  shivered 
at every corner ,  passed in and out at every doorway ,  looked 
from every window ,  fluttered in every vestige of a garment 



HUNGRY SAINT ANTOINE 45 

that the wind shook .  The mill which had worked them 
down ,  was the mill that grinds young people old  ;  the 
children had ancient faces and grave voices  ;  and upon them ,  
and upon the grown faces ,  and ploughed into every furrow 
of age and coming up afresh ,  was the sign ,  Hunger .  It 
was prevalent everywhere .  Hunger was pushed out of the 
tall houses ,  in the wretched clothing that hung upon poles 
and lines ;  Hunger was patched into them with straw and 
rag and wood and paper  ;  Hunger was repeated in every 
fragment of the small modicum of firewood that the man 
sawed off  ;  Hunger stared down from the smokeless chimneys ,  
and started up from the filthy street that had no offal ,  among 
its refuse ,  of anything to eat .  Hunger was the inscription 
on the bakers shelves ,  written in every small loaf of his 
scanty stock of bad bread  ;  at the sausage - shop ,  in every 
dead - dog preparation that was offered for sale .  Hunger 
rattled its dry bones among the roasting chestnuts in the 
turned cylinder  ;  Hunger was shred into atomies in every 
farthing porringer of husky chips of potato ,  fried with some 
reluctant drops of oil .  

Its abiding place was in all things fitted to it .  A narrow 
winding street ,  full of offence and stench ,  with other narrow 
winding streets diverging ,  all peopled by rags and nightcaps ,  
and all smelling of rags and nightcaps ,  and all visible things 
with a brooding look upon them that looked ill .  In the 
hunted air of the people there was yet some wild - beast 
thought of the possibility of turning at bay .  Depressed and 
slinking though they were ,  eyes of fire were not wanting 
among them  ;  nor compressed lips ,  white with what they 
suppressed  ;  nor foreheads knitted into the likeness of the 
gallows - rope they mused about enduring ,  or inflicting .  The 
trade signs  ( and they were almost as many as the shops )  
were ,  all ,  grim illustrations of Want .  The butcher and the 
porkman painted up ,  only the leanest scrags of meat  ;  the 
baker ,  the coarsest of meagre loaves .  The people rudely 
pictured as drinking in the wine - shops ,  croaked over their 
scanty measures of thin wine and beer ,  and were gloweringly 
confidential together .  Nothing was repiesented in a flourish -  
ing condition ,  save tools and weapons  ;  but ,  the cutlers 
knives and axes were sharp and bright ,  the smiths hammers 
were heavy ,  and the gunmakers stock was murderous .  The 
crippling stones of the pavement ,  with their many little 
reservoirs of mud and water ,  had no footways ,  but broke <<H 



46 A TALE OF TWO CITIES 

abruptly at the doors .  The kennel ,  to make amends ,  ran 
down the middle of the street — when it ran at all : which 
was only after heavy rains ,  and then it ran .  by many 
eccentric fits ,  into the houses .  Across the streets ,  at wide 
intervals ,  one clumsy lamp was slung by a rope and pulley  ;  
at night ,  when the lamplighter had let these down ,  and 
lighted ,  and hoisted them again ,  a feeble grove of dim wicks 
swung in a sickly manner ovei - head .  as if they were at sea .  
Indeed they were at sea ,  and the ship and crew were in 
peril of tempest .  

For ,  the time was to come ,  when the gaunt scarecrows of 
that region should have watched the lamplighter ,  in their 
idleness and hunger ,  so long ,  as to conceive the idea of 
improving on his method ,  and hauling up men by those 
ropes and pulleys ,  to flare upon the darkness of their 
condition .  But ,  the time was not come 3 - et  ;  and every 
wind that blew over France shook the rags of the scare -  
crows in vain ,  for the birds ,  fine of song and feather ,  took 



no warning .  



The wine - shop was a corner shop ,  better than most others 
in its appearance and degree ,  and the master of the wine -  
shop had stood outside it ,  in a yellow waistcoat and green 
breeches ,  looking on at the struggle for the lost wine .   "  Its 
not my affair ,  "  said he ,  with a final shrug of the shoulders .  
 "  The people from the market did it .  Let them bring 
another .  "  

There ,  his eyes happening to catch the tall joker writing 
up his joke ,  he called to him across the way : 

 "  Say ,  then ,  my Gaspard ,  what do you do there? "  

The fellow pointed to his joke with immense significance ,  
as is often the way with his tribe .  It missed its mark ,  and 
completely failed ,  as is often the way with his tribe too .  

 "  What now ? Are you a subject for the mad hospital ?  "  
said the wine - shop keeper ,  crossing the road ,  and obliterating 
the jest with a handful of mud ,  picked up for the purpose ,  
and smeared over it .   - Why do you write in the public 
streets? Is there — tell me thou — is there no other place to 
write such words in ?  "  

In his expostulation he dropped his cleaner hand  ( perhaps 
accidentally ,  perhaps not )  upon the jokers heart .  The joker 
rapped it with his own ,  took a nimble spring upward ,  and 
came down in a fantastic dancing attitude ,  with one of his 
stained shoes jerked off his foot: into his hand ,  and held out ,  



MONSIEUR AND MADAME DEFARGE 47 

A joker of an extremely ,  not to say wolfishly practical 
character ,  he looked ,  under those circumstances .  

 " Put it on ,  put it on ,  "  said the other .   "  Call wine ,  wine  ;  
and finish there .  "  With that advice ,  he wiped his soiled 
hand upon the jokers dress ,  such as it was — quite de -  
liberately ,  as having dirtied the hand on his account  ;  and 
then re - crossed the road and entered the wine - shop .  

This wine - shop keeper was a bull - necked ,  martial - looking 
man of thirty ,  and he should have been of a hot tempera -  
ment ,  for ,  although it was a bitter day ,  he wore no coat ,  but 
carried one slung over his shoulder .  His shirt - sleeves were 
rolled up ,  too .  and his brown arms were bare to the elbows .  
Neither did he wear anything more on his head than his 
own crisply -  curling short dark hair .  He was a dark man 
altogether ,  with good eyes and a good bold breadth between 
them .  Good - humoured looking on the whole ,  but implacable -  
looking ,  too  ;  evidently a man of a strong resolution and a 
set purpose  ;  a man not desirable to be met ,  rushing down 
a narrow pass with a gulf on either side ,  for nothing would 
turn the man .  

Madame Defarge ,  his wife ,  sat in the shop behind the 
counter as he came in .  Madame Defarge was a stout woman 
of about his own age ,  with a watchful eye that seldom 
seemed to look at anything ,  a large hand heavily ringed ,  
a steady face ,  strong features ,  and great composure of 
manner .  There was a character about Madame Defarge ,  
from which one might have predicated that she did not often 
make mistakes against herself in any of the reckonings over 
which she presided .  Madame Defarge being sensitive to 
cold ,  was wrapped in fur .  and had a quantity of bright shawl 
twined about her head ,  though not to the concealment of 
her large ear - rings .  Her knitting was before her ,  but she 
had laid it down to pick her teeth with a toothpick .  Thus 
engaged ,  with her right elbow supported by her left hand ,  
Madame Defarge said nothing when her lord came in ,  but 
coughed just one grain of cough .  This ,  in combination with 
the lifting of her darkly defined eyebrows over her toothpick 
by the breadth of a line ,  suggested to her husband that he 
would do well to look round the shop among the customers ,  
for any new customer who had dropped in while he stepped 
over the way .  

The wine - shop keeper accordingly rolled his eyes about ,  
until they rested upon an elderly gentleman and a young 



48 A TALE OF TWO CHIEF ;  

lady ,  who were seated in a corner .  Other company were 
there: two playing cards ,  two playing dominoes ,  three 
standing by the counter lengthening out a short supply of 
wine .  As he passed behind the counter ,  he took notice 
that the elderly gentleman said in a look to the young lady ,  
 "  This is our man .  "  

 " What the devil do you do in that galley there ?  "  said 
Monsieur Defarge to himself  ;  I dont know you .  "  

But ,  he feigned not to notice the two strangers ,  and fell 
into discourse with the triumvirate of customers who were 
drinking at the counter .  

 " How goes it ,  Jacques? "  said one of these three to 
Monsieur Defarge .   "  Is all the spilt wine swallowed? "  

 "  Every drop .  Jacques ,  "  answered Monsieur Defarge .  

When this interchange of christian name was effected .  
Madame Defarge ,  picking her teeth with her toothpick ,  
coughed another grain of cough ,  and raised her eyebrows by 
the breadth of another line .  

 " It is not often .  "  said the second of the three ,  addressing 
Monsieur Defarge ,   " that many of these miserable beasts know 
the taste of wine ,  or of anything but black bread and death .  
Is it not so ,  Jacques ?  "  

 " It is so .  Jacques ,  "  Monsieur Defarge returned .  

At this second interchange of the christian name .  Madame 
Defarge ,  still using her toothpick with profound composure ,  
coughed another grain of cough ,  and raised her e} T ebrows by 
the breadth of another line .  

The last of the three now said his say ,  as he put down his 
empty drinking vessel and smacked his lips .  

 "  All  !  So much the worse  !  A bitter taste it is that such 
poor cattle always have in their mouths ,  and hard lives they 
live ,  Jacques .  Am I right ,  Jacques ?  "  

 " You are right .  Jacques ,  "  was the response of Monsieur 
Defarge ,  

This third interchange of the christian name was completed 
at the moment when Madame Defarge put her toothpick by ,  
kept her eyebrows up .  and slightly rustled in her seat .  

 "  Hold then  !  True  !   "  muttered her husband .   "  Gentle -  
men — my wife  !   "  

The three customers pulled off their hats to Madame 
Defarge ,  with three nourishes .  She acknowledged their 
homage by bending her head ,  and giving them a quick look .  
Then she glanced in a casual manner round the wine - shop ,  



ON THE STAIRCASE 49 

took up her knitting with great apparent calmness and 
repose of spirit ,  and became absorbed in it .  

 " Gentlemen ,  "  said her husband ,  who had kept his bright 
eye observantly upon her ,   "  good day .  The chamber ,  fur -  
nished bachelor - fashion ,  that you wished to see ,  and were 
inquiring for when I stepped out ,  is on the fifth floor .  The 
doorway of the staircase gives on the little court - yard close 
to the left here ,  "  pointing with his hand ,   " near to the 
window of my establishment .  But ,  now that I remember ,  
one of you has already been there ,  and can show the way .  
Gentlemen ,  adieu  !   "  

They paid for their wine ,  and left the place .  The eyes of 
Monsieur Defarge were studying his wife at her knitting 
when the elderly gentleman advanced from his corner ,  and 
begged the favour of a word .  

 "  Willingly ,  sir ,  "  said Monsieur Defarge ,  and cmietly 
stepped with him to the door .  

Their conference was very short ,  but very decided .  Almost 
at the first word ,  Monsieur Defarge started and became 
deeply attentive .  It had not lasted a minute ,  when he 
nodded and went out .  The gentleman then beckoned to 
the young lady ,  and they ,  too ,  went out .  Madame Defarge 
knitted with nimble fingers and steady eyebrows ,  and saw 
nothing .  

Mr .  Jarvis Lorry and Miss Manette ,  emerging from the 
wine - shop thus ,  joined Monsieur Defarge in the doorway to 
which he had directed his other company just before .  It 
opened from a stinking little black court - yard ,  and was the 
general public entrance to a great pile of houses ,  inhabited by 
a great number of people .  In the gloomy tile - paved entry to 
the gloomy tile - paved staircase ,  Monsieur Defarge bent down 
on one knee to the child of his old master ,  and put her hand 
to his lips .  It was a gentle action ,  but not at all gently 
done  ;  a veiy remarkable transformation had come over him 
in a few seconds .  He had no good - humour in his face ,  nor 
any openness of aspect left ,  but had become a secret ,  angry ,  
dangerous man .  

 "  It is very high  ;  it is a little difficult .  Better to begin 
slowly .  "  Thus ,  Monsieur Defarge ,  in a stern voice ,  to Mr .  
Lorry ,  as they began ascending the stairs .  

 "  Is he alone ?  "  the latter whispered .  

 "  Alone  !  God help him .  who should be with him ?  "  said 
the other ,  in the same low voice .  



50 A TALE OF TWO CITIES 

 "  Is he always alone ,  then ? "  

 "  Yes .  "  

 "  Of his own desire ?  "  

 "  Of his own necessity .  As he was ,  when I first saw him 
after they found me and demanded to know if I woidd take 
him ,  and ,  at my peril be discreet — as he was then ,  so he is 
now .  "  

 "  He is greatly changed ?  "  

 "  Changed  !   "  

The keeper of the wine - shop stopped to strike the wall 
with his hand ,  and mutter a tremendous curse .  No direct 
answer could have been half so forcible .  Mr .  Lorrys spirits 
grew heavier and heavier ,  as he and his two companions 
ascended higher and higher .  

Such a staircase ,  with its accessories ,  in the older and 
more crowded parts of Paris ,  would be bad enough now  ;  
but ,  at that time ,  it was vile indeed to unaccustomed and 
unhardened senses .  Every little habitation within the great 
foul nest of one high building — that is to say ,  the room or 
rooms within every door that opened on the general stair -  
case — left its own heap of refuse on its own landing ,  besides 
flinging other refuse from its own windows .  The uncon -  
trollable and hopeless mass of decomposition so engendered ,  
would have polluted the air ,  even if poverty and deprivation 
had not loaded it with their intangible impurities ;  the 
two bad sources combined made it almost insupportable .  
Through such an atmosphere ,  by a steep dark shaft of dirt 
and poison ,  the way lay .  Yielding to his own disturbance of 
mind ,  and to his young companions agitation ,  which became 
greater every instant ,  Mr .  Jarvis Lorry twice stopped to rest .  
Each of these stoppages was made at a doleful grating ,  by 
which any languishing good airs that were left uncorrupted ,  
seemed to escape ,  and all spoilt and sickly vapours seemed 
to crawl in .  Through the rusted bars ,  tastes ,  rather than 
glimpses ,  were caught of the jumbled neighbourhood  ;  and 
nothing within range ,  nearer or lower than the summits of 
the two great towers of Notre - Dame ,  had any promise on it 
of healthy life or wholesome aspirations .  

At last ,  the top of the staircase was gained ,  and they 
stopped for the third time .  There was yet an upper staircase ,  
of a steeper inclination and of contracted dimensions ,  to be 
ascended ,  before the garret story was reached .  The keeper 
of the wine - shop ,  always going a little in advance ,  and always 



MISS MANETTES EMOTION 51 

going on the side which Mr .  Lorry took ,  as though he dreaded 
to be asked any question by the young lady ,  turned himself 
about here ,  and ,  carefully feeling in the pockets of the coat 
he carried over his shoulder ,  took out a key .  

 "  The door is locked then ,  my friend ?  "  said Mr .  Lorry ,  
surprised .  

 "  Ay .  Yes ,  "  was the grim reply of Monsieur Defarge .  

 "  You think it necessary to keep the unfortunate gentle -  
man so retired ?  "  

 "  I think it necessary to turn the key .  "  Monsieur Defarge 
whispered it closer in his ear ,  and frowned heavily .  

 " Why? "  

• Why  !  Because he has lived so long ,  locked up ,  that he 
would be frightened— rave — tear himself to pieces— die — 
come to I know not what harm -  if his door was left open .  "  

 "  Is it possible ?  "  exclaimed Mr .  Lorry .  

 "  Is it possible ? "  repeated Defarge ,  bitterly .   " Yes .  And 
a beautiful world we live in ,  when it is possible ,  and when 
many other such things are possible ,  and not only possible ,  
but done — done ,  see you  !  — under that sky there ,  every day .  
Long live the Devil .  Let us go on .  "  

This dialogue had been held in so very low a whisper ,  that 
not a word of it had reached the young ladys ears .  But ,  
by this time she trembled under such strong emotion ,  and 
her face expressed such deep anxiety ,  and ,  above all ,  such 
dread and terror ,  that Mr .  Lorry felt it incumbent on him 
to speak a word or two of reassurance .  

 "  Courage ,  dear miss  !  Courage  !  Business  !  The worst 
will be over in a moment  ;  it is but passing the room - door ,  
and the worst is over .  Then ,  all the good you bring to him ,  
all the relief ,  all the happiness you bring to him ,  begin .  Let 
our good friend here ,  assist you on that side .  Thats well ,  
friend Defarge .  Come ,  now .  Business ,  business  !   "  

They went up slowly and softly .  The staircase was short ,  
and they were soon at the top .  There ,  as it had an abrupt 
turn in it ,  they came all at once in sight of three men ,  whose 
heads were bent down close together at the side of a door ,  
and who were intently looking into the room to which the 
door belonged ,  through some chinks or holes in the wall .  
On hearing footsteps close at hand ,  these three turned ,  and 
rose ,  and showed themselves to be the three of one name 
who had been drinking in the wine - shop .  

 " I forgot them in the surprise of your visit ,  "  explained 



52 A TALE OF TWO CITIES 

Monsieur Defaige .   "  Leave us ,  good boys  ;  we have business 
here .  "  

The three glided by ,  and went silently down .  

There appearing to be no other door on that floor ,  and the 
keeper of the wine - shop going straight to this one when they 
were left alone ,  Mr .  Lorry asked him in a whisper ,  with a 
little anger : 

 "  Do you make a show of Monsieur Manette ?  "  

 "  I show him ,  in the way you have seen ,  to a chosen few .  "  

 "  Is that well ?  "  

 " I think it is well .  "  

• Who are the few ? How do you choose them ?  "  

 "  I choose them as real men .  of my name — Jacques is my 
name — to whom the sight is likely to do good .  Enough  ;  
you are English  ;  that is another thing .  Stay there ,  if you 
please ,  a little moment .  "  

With an admonitory gesture to keep them back ,  he stooped ,  
and looked in through the crevice in the wall .  Soon raising 
his head again ,  he struck twice or thrice upon the door — 
evidently with no other object than to make a noise there .  
With the same intention ,  he drew the key across it .  three or 
four times ,  before he put it clumsily into the lock ,  and turned 
it as heavily as he could .  

The door slowly opened inward under his hand ,  and he 
looked into the room and said something .  A faint voice 
answered something .  Little more than a single syllable 
could have been spoken on either side .  

He looked back over his shoulder ,  and beckoned them to 
enter .  Mr .  Lorry got his arm securely round the daughters 
waist ,  and held her  ;  for he felt that she was sinking .  

•• A — a — a — business ,  business  !   "  he urged ,  with a moisture 
that was not of business shining on his cheek .   "  Come in ,  
come in  !   "  

 " I am afraid of it .  "  she answered ,  shuddering .  

 "  Of it ? What ?  "  

•I mean of him .  Of my father .  "  

Rendered in a manner desperate ,  by her state and by the 
beckoning of their conductor ,  he drew over his neck the arm 
that shook upon his shoulder ,  lifted her a little ,  and hurried 
her into the room .  He set her down just within the door ,  
and held her ,  clinging to him .  

Defarge drew out the key .  closed the door ,  locked it on 
the inside ,  took out the key again ,  and held it in his baud .  



THE GARRET 53 

All this he did .  methodically ,  and with as loud and harsh 
an accompaniment of noise as he could make .  Finally ,  he 
walked across the room with a measured tread to where the 
window was .  He stopped there ,  and faced round .  

The garret ,  built to be a depository for firewood and the 
like ,  was dim and dark : for the window of dormer shape ,  
was in truth a door in the roof ,  with a little crane over it 
for the hoisting up of stores from the street : unglazed ,  and 
closing up the middle in two pieces ,  like any other door of 
French construction .  To exclude the cold ,  one half of this 
door was fast closed ,  and the other was opened but a very 
little way .  Such a scanty portion of light was admitted 
through these means ,  that it was difficult ,  on first coming 
in ,  to see anything  ;  and long habit alone could have slowly 
formed in any one ,  the ability to do any work requiring 
nicety in such obscurity .  Yet .  work of that kind was being 
done in the garret  ;  for ,  with his back towards the door ,  and 
his face towards the window where the keeper of the wine -  
shop stood looking at him ,  a white - haired man sat on a low 
bench ,  stooping forward and very busy ,  making shoes .  



CHAPTER VI 

THE SHOEMAKEK 

* Good day  !   "  said Monsieur Defarge ,  looking down at the 
white head that bent low over the shoemaking .  

It was raised for a moment ,  and a very faint voice 
responded to the salutation ,  as if it were at a distance : 

 "  Good day  !   "  

 "  You are still hard at work ,  I see ?  "  

After a long silence ,  the head was lifted for another 
moment ,  and the voice replied ,   "  Yes — I am working .  "  
This time ,  a pair of haggard eyes had looked at the ques -  
tioner ,  before the face had dropped again .  

The faintness of the voice was pitiable and dreadful .  It 
was not the faintness of physical weakness ,  though confine -  
ment and hard fare no doubt had their part in it .  Its 
deplorable peculiarity was ,  that it was the faintness of 
solitude and disuse .  It was like the last feeble echo of 
a sound made long and long ago .  So entirely had it lost 
the life and resonance of the human voice ,  that it affected 
the senses like a once beautiful colour faded away into 
a poor weak stain .  So sunken and suppressed it was ,  that 
it was like a voice underground .  So expressive it was ,  of 
a hopeless and lost creature ,  that a famished traveller ,  
wearied out by lonely wandering in a wilderness ,  would 
have remembered home and friends in such a tone before 
lying down to die .  

Some minutes of silent work had passed : and the haggard 
eyes had looked up again : not with any interest or curiosity ,  
but with a dull mechanical perception ,  beforehand ,  that the 
spot where the only visitor they were aware of had stood ,  
was not yet empty .  

 " I want ,  "  said Defarge ,  who had not removed his gaze 
from the shoemaker ,   " to let in a little more light here .  
You can bear a little more ?  "  



THE SHOEMAKER 55 

The shoemaker stopped his work  ;  looked with a vacant 
air of listening ,  at the floor on one side of him  ;  then 
similarly ,  at the floor on the other side of him  ;  then ,  
upward at the speaker .  

 "  What did you say ?  "  

 "  You can bear a little more light ?  "  

 "  I must bear it ,  if you let it in .  "   ( Laying the palest 
shadow of a stress upon the second word .  )  

The opened half - door was opened a little further ,  and 
secured at that angle for the time .  A broad ray of light 
fell into the garret ,  and showed the workman with an 
unfinished shoe upon his lap ,  pausing in his labour .  His 
few common tools and various scraps of leather were at his 
feet and on his bench .  He had a white beard ,  raggedly cut ,  
but not very long ,  a hollow face ,  and exceedingly bright 
eyes .  The hollowness and thinness of his face would have 
caused them to look large ,  under his yet dark eyebrows 
and his confused white hair ,  though they had been really 
otherwise  ;  but ,  they were naturally large ,  and looked 
unnaturally so .  His yellow rags of shirt lay open at the 
throat ,  and showed his body to be withered and worn .  He ,  
and his old canvas frock ,  and his loose stockings ,  and all 
his poor tatters of clothes ,  had ,  in a long seclusion from 
direct light and air ,  faded down to such a dull uniformity of 
parchment - yellow ,  that it would have been hard to say which 
was which .  

He had put up a hand between his eyes and the light ,  
and the very bones of it seemed transparent .  So he sat ,  
with a steadfastly vacant gaze ,  pausing in his work .  He 
never looked at the figure before him ,  without first looking 
down on this side of himself ,  then on that ,  as if he had lost 
the habit of associating place with sound  ;  he never spoke ,  
without first wandering in this manner ,  and forgetting to 
speak .  

 " Are you going to finish that pair of shoes to - day? "  
asked Defarge ,  motioning to Mr .  Lorry to come forward .  

 " What did you say? "  

 "  Do you mean to finish that pair of shoes to - day ?  "  

 "  I cant say that I mean to .  I suppose so .  I dont 
know .  "  

But ,  the question reminded him of his work ,  and he bent 
over it again .  

Mr .  Lorry came silently forward ,  leaving the daughter by 



56 A TALE DP TWO CITIE 

the door .  When he had stood ,  for a minute or two ,  by the 
side of Defarge ,  the shoemaker looked up .  He showed no 
surprise at seeing another figure ,  but the unsteady fingers 
of one of his hands strayed to his lips as he looked at it 
 ( his lips and his nails were of the same pale lead - colour )  ,  
and then the hand dropped to his work ,  and he once more 
bent over the shoe .  The look and the action had occupied 
but an instant .  

 "  You have a visitor ,  you see ,  "  said Monsieur Defarge .  

 " What did you say? "  

 "  Here is a visitor .  "  

The shoemaker looked up as before ,  but without removing 
a hand from his work .  

 "  Come  !   "  said Defarge .   "  Here is monsieur ,  who knows 
a well - made shoe when he sees one .  Show him that shoe 
you are working at .  Take it ,  monsieur .  "  

Mr .  Lorry took it in his hand .  

 "  Tell monsieur what kind of shoe it is .  and the makers 
name .  "  

There was a longer pause than usual ,  before the shoe -  
maker replied : 

 "  I forget what it was you asked me .  What did you say ?  "  

 "  I said ,  couldnt you describe the kind of shoe ,  for 
monsieurs information ?  "  

 "  It is a ladys shoe .  It is a young ladys walking - shoe .  
It is in the present mode .  I never saw the mode .  I have 
had a pattern in my hand .  "  He glanced at the shoe with 
some little passing touch of pride .  

 "  And the makers name ?  "  said Defarge .  

Now that he had no work to hold ,  he laid the knuckles 
of the right hand in the hollow of the left ,  and then the 
knuckles of the left hand in the hollow of the right ,  and 
then passed a hand across his bearded chin ,  and so on in 
regular changes ,  without a moments intermission .  The 
task of recalling him from the vacancy into which he always 
sank when he had spoken ,  was like recalling some very 
weak person from a swoon ,  or endeavouring ,  in the hope of 
some disclosure ,  to stay the spirit of a fast - dying man .  

 "  Did you ask me for my name ?  "  

 "  Assuredly I did .  "  

 "  One Hundred and Five ,  North Tower .  "  

 "  Is that all ?  "  

 "  One Hundred and Five ,  North Tower .  "  



NOT A SHOEMAKER BY TRADE 57 

With a weary sound that was not a sigh ,  nor a groan ,  he 
bent to work again ,  until the silence was again broken .  

 " You are not a shoemaker by trade? "  said Mr .  Lorry ,  
looking steadfastly at him .  

His haggard eyes turned to Defarge as if he would have 
transferred the question to him : but as no help came from 
that quarter ,  they turned back on the questioner when they 
had sought the ground .  

• I am not a shoemaker by trade ? No ,  I was not a shoe -  
maker by trade .  I — I learnt it here .  I taught myself .  
I asked leave to  "  

He lapsed away ,  even for minutes ,  ringing those measured 
changes on his hands the whole time .  His eyes came 
slowly back ,  at last ,  to the face from which they had 
wandered  ;  when they rested on it ,  he started ,  and resumed ,  
in the manner of a sleeper that moment awake ,  reverting to 
a subject of last night .  

 "  I asked leave to teach myself ,  and I got it with much 
difficulty after a long while ,  and I have made shoes ever 
since .  "  

As he held out his hand for the shoe that had been taken 
from him ,  Mr .  Lorry said ,  still looking steadfastly in his 
face : 

 " Monsieur Manette ,  do you remember nothing of me? "  

The shoe dropped to the ground ,  and he sat looking 
fixedly at the questioner .  

 " Monsieur Manette ;  "  Mr .  Lorry laid his hand upon 
Defarges arm ;   " do you remember nothing of this man? 
Look at him .  Look at me .  Is there no old banker ,  no old 
business ,  no old servant ,  no old time ,  rising in your mind ,  
Monsieur Manette ?  "  

As the captive of many years sat looking fixedly ,  by 
turns ,  at Mr .  Loriy and at Defarge ,  some long obliterated 
marks of an actively intent intelligence in the middle of the 
forehead ,  gradually forced themselves through the black 
mist that had fallen on him .  They were overclouded again ,  
they were fainter ,  they were gone  ;  but they had been there .  
And so exactly was the expression repeated on the fair 
young face of her who had crept along the wall to a point 
where she could see him ,  and where she now stood looking 
at him ,  with hands which at first had been only raised in 
frightened compassion ,  if not even to keep him off and shut 
out the sight of him .  but which were now extending towards 



58 A TALE OF TWO CITIES 

him ,  trembling with eagerness to Liy the spectral face upon 
her warm young breast ,  and love it back to life and hope — 
so exactly was the expression repeated  ( though in stronger 
characters )  on her fair young face ,  that it looked as though 
it had passed like a moving light ,  from him to her .  

Darkness had fallen on him in its place .  He looked at 
the two ,  less and less attentively ,  and his eyes in gloomy 
abstraction sought the ground and looked about him in the 
old way .  Finally ,  with a deep long sigh ,  he took the shoe 
up ,  and resumed his work .  

 "  Have you recognised him ,  monsieur ?  "  asked Defarge in 
a whisper .  

  ;  Yes  ;  for a moment .  At first I thought it quite hope -  
less ,  but I have uncpiestionably seen ,  for a single moment ,  
the face that I once knew so well .  Hush  !  Let us draw 
further back .  Hush  !   "  

She had moved from the wall of the garret ,  very near to 
the bench on which he sat .  There was something awful in 
his unconsciousness of the figure that could have put out its 
hand and touched him as he stooped over his labour .  

Not a word was spoken ,  not a sound was made .  She 
stood ,  like a spirit ,  beside him ,  and he bent over his work .  

It happened ,  at lengtb ,  that he had occasion to change 
the instrument in his hand ,  for his shoemakers knife .  It 
lay on that side of him Avhich was not the side on which she 
stood .  He had taken it up ,  and was stooping to work again ,  
when his eyes caught the skirt of her dress .  He raised 
them ,  and saw her face .  The two spectators started forward ,  
but she stayed them with a motion of her hand .  She had 
no fear of his striking at her with the knife ,  though they had .  

He stared at her with a fearful look ,  and after a while his 
lips began to form some words ,  though no sound proceeded 
from them .  By degrees ,  in the pauses of his quick and 
laboured breathing ,  he was heard to say : 

 " What is this? "  

With the tears streaming down her face ,  she put her two 
hands to her lips ,  and kissed them to him  ;  then clasped 
them on her breast ,  as if she laid his ruined head there .  

 " You are not the gaolers daughter? "  

She sighed  "  . No .  "  

Who are you? "  

Not yet trusting the tones of her voice ,  she sat down on 
the bench beside him .  He recoiled ,  but she laid her hand 



RECOLLECTIONS OF THE PAST 59 

upon his arm .  A strange thrill struck him when she did so ,  
and visibly passed over his frame  ;  he laid the knife down 
softly ,  as he sat staring at her .  

Her golden hair ,  which she wore in long curls ,  had been 
hurriedly pushed aside ,  and fell down over her neck .  
Advancing his hand by little and little ,  he took it up and 
looked at it .  In the midst of the action he went astray ,  
and ,  with another deep sigh ,  fell to work at his shoemaking .  

But not for long .  Releasing his arm ,  she laid her hand 
upon his shoulder .  After looking doubtfully at it ,  two or 
three times ,  as if to be sure that it was really there ,  he laid 
down his work ,  put his hand to his neck ,  and took off 
a blackened string with a scrap of folded rag attached to it .  
He opened this ,  carefully ,  on his knee ,  and it contained 
a very little quantity of hair: not more than one or two 
long golden hairs ,  which he had ,  in some old day ,  wound 
off upon his finger .  

He took her hair into his hand again ,  and looked closely 
at it .   " It is the same .  How can it be !  When was it !  
How was it  !   "  

As the concentrating expression returned to his forehead ,  
he seemed to become conscious that it was in hers too .  He 
turned her full to the light ,  and looked at her .  

 "  She had laid her head upon my shoulder ,  that night 
when I was summoned out — she had a fear of my going ,  
though I had none — and when I was brought to the North 
Tower they found these upon my sleeve .   You will leave 
me them ? They can never help me to escape in the body ,  
though they may in the spirit Those were the words 
I said .  I remember them very well .  "  

He formed this speech with his lips many times before he 
could utter it .  But when he did find spoken words for it ,  
they came to him coherently ,  though slowly .  

 "  How was this ? — Was it you ?  "  

Once more ,  the two spectators started ,  as he turned upon 
her with a frightful suddenness .  But she sat perfectly still 
in his grasp ,  and only said ,  in a low voice ,   " I entreat you ,  
good gentlemen ,  do not come near us ,  do not speak ,  do not 
move  !   "  

 "  Hark  !   "  he exclaimed .   "   " Whose voice was that ?  "  

His hands released her as he uttered this ciy ,  and went 
up to his white hair ,  which they tore in  ; i frenzy .  It died 
out ,  as everything but his shoemaking did die out of him ,  



60 A TALE OF TWO CITIES 

 . tixl he refolded his little packet and tried to secure it in 
his breast  ;  but he still looked at her ,  and gloomily shook 
his head .  

 "  No ,  no ,  no  ;  you are too young ,  too blooming .  It cant 
lie .  See what the prisoner is .  These are not the hands she 
knew ,  this is not the face she knew ,  this is not a voice she 
ever heard .  No ,  no .  She was — and He was — before the 
slow years of the North Tower — ages ago .  What is your 
name ,  my gentle angel *?  "  

Hailing his softened tone and manner ,  his daughter fell 
upon her knees before him ,  with her appealing hands upon 
his breast .  

4 0 ,  sir ,  at another time you shall know my name ,  and 
who my mother was ,  and who my father ,  and how I never 
knew their hard ,  hard history .  But I cannot tell you at 
this time ,  and I cannot tell you here .  All that I may tell 
you ,  here and now ,  is ,  that I pray to you to touch me 
and to bless me .  Kiss me ,  kiss me  !  O my dear ,  my 
dear  !   "  

His cold white head mingled with her radiant hair ,  which 
warmed and lighted it as though it were the light of Free -  
dom shining on him .  

If you hear in my voice — I dont know that it is so ,  but 
I hope it is — if you hear in my voice any resemblance to 
a voice that once was sweet music in your ears ,  weep for it ,  
weep for it  !  If you touch ,  in touching my hair ,  anything 
that recalls a beloved head that lay on your breast when 
you were young and free ,  weep for it ,  weep for it  !  If ,  
when I hint to you of a Home that is before us ,  where 
I will be true to you with all my duty and with all my 
faithful service ,  I bring back the remembrance of a Home 
long desolate ,  while your poor heart pined away ,  weep for 
it .  weep for it  !   "  

She held him closer round the neck ,  and rocked him on 
her breast like a child .  

 "  If ,  when I tell you .  dearest dear ,  that your agony is 
over ,  and that I have come here to take you from it ,  and 
that we go to England to be at peace and at rest ,  I cause 
you to think of your useful life laid waste ,  and of our native 
France so wicked to you .  weep for it ,  weep for it  !  And if ,  
when I shall tell you of my name ,  and of my father who 
is living ,  and of my mother who is dead ,  you learn that 
I have to kneel to my honoured father ,  and implore his 




B5 
fH 

< 

w 
o 
K 

ft 
H 



PREPARING FOR A JOURNEY 60 

pardon for having never for his sake striven all day and 
lain awake and wept all night ,  hecause the love of my poor 
mother hid his torture from me ,  weep for it .  weep for it  !  
Weep for her ,  then ,  and for me  !  Good gentlemen ,  thank 
God  !  I feel his sacred tears upon my face ,  and his sohs 
strike against my heart .  0 ,  see  !  Thank God for us .  thank 
God  !   "  

He had sunk in her arms ,  and his face dropped on her 
breast : a sight so touching ,  yet so terrible in the tre -  
mendous wrong and suffering which had gone before it .  
that the two beholders covered their faces .  

When the quiet of the garret had been long undisturbed ,  
and his heaving breast and shaken form had long yielded to 
the calm that must follow all storms — emblem to humanity ,  
of the rest and silence into which the storm called Life must 
hush at last — they came forward to raise the father and 
daughter from the ground .  He had gradually dropped to 
the floor ,  and lay there in a lethargy ,  worn out .  She had 
nestled down with him .  that his head might lie upon her 
arm : and her hair drooping over him curtained him from 
the light .  

 " If ,  without disturbing him ,  "  she said ,  raising her hand 
to Mr .  Lorry as lie stooped over them ,  after repeated blow -  
ings of his nose ,   " all could be arranged for our leaving 
Paris at once ,  so that ,  from the very door ,  he could be 
taken away  "  

•But ,  consider .  Is he fit for the journe ) ? "  asked 
Mr .  Lorry .  

 "  More fit for that ,  I think ,  than to remain in this city ,  
so dreadful to him .  "  

 " It is true ,  "  said Defarge .  who was kneeling to look on 
and hear .   "  More than that  ;  Monsieur Manette is .  for all 
reasons ,  best out of France .  Say ,  shall I hire a carriage 
and post - horses ?  "  

 " Thats business ,  "  said Mr .  Lorry ,  resuming on the 
shortest notice his methodical manners ;   " and if business 
is to be done ,  I had better do it .  "  

 " Then be so kind ,  "  urged Miss Manette ,   " as to leave us 
here .  You see how composed he has become ,  and j^ou cannot 
be afraid to leave him with me now .  Why should you be? 
If you will lock the door to secure us from interruption ,  
I do not doubt that you will find him ,  when you come back ,  
as quiet as you leave him .  In any case .  J will take care 



64 A TALE OF TWO CITIES 

of him until you return ,  and then we will remove him 
straight .   "  

Both Mr .  Lorry and Defarge were rather disinclined to 
this course ,  and in favour of one of them remaining .  But ,  
as there were not only carriage and horses to be seen to ,  
out travelling papers  ;  and as time pressed ,  for the day was 
drawing to an end ,  it came at last to their hastily dividing 
the business that was necessary to be done ,  and hurrying 
away to do it .  

Then ,  as the darkness closed in ,  the daughter laid her 
head down on the hard ground close at the fathers side ,  and 
watched him .  The darkness deepened and deepened ,  and 
they both lay quiet ,  until a light gleamed through the 
chinks in the wall .  

Mr .  Lorry and Monsieur Defarge had made all ready for 
the journey ,  and had brought with them ,  besides travelling 
cloaks and wrappers ,  bread and meat ,  wine ,  and hot coffee .  
Monsieur Defarge put this provender ,  and the lamp he 
carried ,  on the shoemakers bench  ( there was nothing else 
in the garret but a pallet bed )  ,  and he and Mr .  Lorry roused 
the captive ,  and assisted him to his feet .  

No human intelligence could have read the mysteries of 
his mind ,  in the scared blank wonder of his face .  Whether 
he knew what had happened ,  whether he recollected what 
they had said to him ,  whether he knew that he was free ,  
were questions which no sagacity could have solved .  They 
tried speaking to him  ;  but ,  he was so confused ,  and so very 
slow to answer ,  that they took fright at his bewilderment ,  
and agreed for the time to tamper with him no more .  
He had a wild ,  lost manner of occasionally clasping his 
head in his hands ,  that had not been seen in him before : 
yet ,  he had some pleasure in the mere sound of his 
daughters voice ,  and invariably turned to it when she 
spoke .  

In the submissive way of one long accustomed to obey 
under coercion ,  he ate and drank what they gave him to eat 
and drink ,  and put on the cloak and other wrappings ,  that 
they gave him to wear .  He readily responded to his 
daughters drawing her arm through his ,  and took— and 
kept — her hand in both his own .  

They began to descend  ;  Monsieur Defarge going first 
with the lamp .  Mr .  Lorry closing the little procession .  
They had not traversed many steps of the long main stair -  



TO THE BARRIER  !  65 

case when lie stopped ,  and stared at the roof and round at 
the walls .  

 " You remember the place ,  my father? You remember 
coming up here ?  "  

 "  What did you say ?  "  

But ,  before she could repeat the question ,  he murmured 
an answer as if she had repeated it .  

 " Remember? No ,  I dont remember .  It was so very 
long ago .  "  

That he had no recollection whatever of his having been 
brought from his prison to that house ,  was apparent to 
them .  They heard him mutter ,   " One Hundred and Five ,  
North Tower  ;   "  and when he looked about him ,  it evidently 
was for the strong fortress - walls which had long encompassed 
him .  On their reaching the court - yard he instinctively altered 
his tread ,  as being in expectation of a drawbridge  ;  and when 
there was no drawbridge ,  and he saw the carriage waiting in 
the open street ,  he dropped his daughters hand and clasped 
his head again .  

No crowd was about the door  ;  no people were discernible 
at any of the many windows  ;  not even a chance passer - by 
was in the street .  An unnatural silence and desertion 
reigned there .  Only one soul was to be seen ,  and that 
was Madame Defarge — who leaned against the door - post ,  
knitting ,  and saw nothing .  

The prisoner had got into a coach ,  and his daughter had 
followed him ,  when Mr .  Lorrys feet were arrested on the 
step by his asking ,  miserably ,  for his shoemaking tools and 
the unfinished shoes .  Madame Defarge immediately called 
to her husband that she would get them ,  and went ,  knitting ,  
out of the lamplight ,  through the court - yard .  She quickly 
brought them down and handed them in  ;  — and immediately 
afterwards leaned against the door - post ,  knitting ,  and saw 
nothing .  

Defarge got upon the box ,  and gave the word  " To the 
Barrier  !   "  The postilion cracked his whip ,  and they clattered 
away under the feeble over - swinging lamps .  

Under the over - swinging lamps— swinging ever brighter 
in the better streets ,  and ever dimmer in the worse — and 
by lighted shops ,  gay crowds ,  illuminated coffee - houses ,  and 
theatre - doors ,  to one of the city gates .  Soldiers with lanterns ,  
at the guard - house there .   "  Your papers ,  travellers  !   "   "  See 
here then ,  Monsieur the Officer ,  "  said Defarge ,  getting down ,  
1 .  c 



66 A TALE OF TWO CITIES 

and taking him gravely apart ,   " these are the papers of 
monsieur inside ,  with the white head .  They were consigned 

to me ,  with him ,  at the  "  He dropped his voice ,  there 

was a flutter among the military lanterns ,  ,  and one of them 
being handed into the coach by an arm in uniform ,  the 
eyes connected with the arm looked ,  not an every - day or 
an every - night look ,  at monsieur with the white head .   "  It 
is well .  Forward !  "  from the uniform .   " Adieu !  "  from 
Defarge .  And so ,  under a short grove of feebler and feebler 
over - swinging lamps ,  out under the great grove of stars .  

Beneath that arch of unmoved and eternal lights  ;  some ,  
so remote from this little earth that the learned tell us it is 
doubtful whether their rays have even yet discovered it ,  as 
a point in space where anything is suffered or done : the 
shadows of the night were broad and black .  All through 
the cold and restless interval ,  until dawn ,  they once more 
whispered in the ears of Mr .  Jarvis Lorry — sitting opposite 
the buried man who had been dug out ,  and wondering what 
subtle powers were for ever lost to him ,  and what were 
capable of restoration — the old inquiry : 

 "  I hope you care to be recalled to life?  "  

And the old answer : 

 "  I cant say .  "  



THE END OF THE FIRST BOOK 



BOOK THE SECOND 
THE GOLDEN THREAD 

CHAPTER I 

FIVE YEARS LATER 

Tellsons Bank by Temple Bar was an old - fashioned place ,  
even in the year one thousand seven hundred and eighty .  
It was very small ,  very dark ,  very ugly ,  very incommodious .  
It was an old - fashioned place ,  moreover ,  in the moral at -  
tribute that the partners in the House were proud of its 
smallness ,  proud of its darkness ,  proud of its ugliness ,  proud 
of its incommodiousness .  They were even boastful of its 
eminence in those particulars ,  and were fired by an express 
conviction that ,  if it were less objectionable ,  it would be less 
respectable .  This was no passive belief ,  but an active 
weapon which they flashed at more convenient places of 
business .  Tellsons  ( they said )  wanted no elbow - room ,  
Tellsons wanted no light ,  Tellsons wanted no embellish -  
ment .  Noakes and Co . s might ,  or Snooks Brothers might  ;  
but Tellsons ,  thank Heaven  !  

Any one of these partners would have disinherited his son 
on the question of rebuilding Tellsons .  In this respect the 
House was much on a par with the Country  ;  which did 
very often disinherit its sons for suggesting improvements 
in laws and customs that had long been highly objectionable ,  
but were only the more respectable .  

Thus it had come to pass ,  that Tellsons was the trium -  
phant perfection of inconvenience .  After bursting open 
a door of idiotic obstinacy with a weak rattle in its throat ,  
you fell into Tellsons down two steps ,  and came to your 
senses in a miserable little shop ,  with two little counters ,  
where the oldest of men made your cheque shake as if the 
wind rustled it ,  while they examined the signature by the 



68 A TALE OF TWO CITIES 

dingiest of windows ,  which were always under a shower -  
bath of mud from Fleet - street ,  and which were made the 
dingier hy their own iron bars proper ,  and the heavy shadow 
of Temple Bar .  If your business necessitated your seeing 
 " the House ,  "  you were put into a species of Condemned 
Hold at the back ,  where you meditated on a misspent life ,  
until the House came with its hands in its pockets ,  and you 
could hardly blink at it in the dismal twilight .  Your money 
came out of ,  or went into ,  wormy old wooden drawers ,  
particles of which flew up your nose and down your throat 
when they were opened and shut .  Your bank - notes had 
a musty odour ,  as if they were fast decomposing into rags 
again .  Your plate was stowed away among the neighbour -  
ing cesspools ,  and evil communications corrupted its good 
polish in a day or two .  Your deeds got into extemporised 
strong - rooms made of kitchens and sculleries ,  and fretted all 
the fat out of their parchments into the banking - house air .  
Your lighter boxes of family papers went up - stairs into a 
Barmecide room ,  that always had a great dining - table in it 
and never had a dinner ,  and where ,  even in the year one 
thousand seven hundred and eighty ,  the first letters written 
to you by your old love ,  or by your little children ,  were but 
newly released from the horror of being ogled through the 
windows ,  by the heads exposed on Temple Bar with an 
insensate brutality and ferocity worthy of Abyssinia or 
Ashantee .  

But indeed ,  at that time ,  putting to death was a recipe 
much in vogue with all trades and professions ,  and not 
least of all with Tellsons .  Death is Natures remedy for 
all things ,  and why not Legislations? Accordingly ,  the 
forger was put to Death  ;  the utterer of a bad note was put 
to Death  ;  the unlawful opener of a letter was put to Death  ;  
the purloiner of forty shillings and sixpence was put to 
Death  ;  the holder of a horse at Tellsons door ,  who made 
off with it ,  was put to Death  ;  the coiner of a bad shilling 
was put to Death  ;  the sounders of three - fourths of the notes 
in the whole gamut of Crime ,  were put to Death .  Not that 
it did the least good in the way of prevention— it might 
almost have been worth remarking that the fact was exactly 
the reverse— but ,  it cleared off  ( as to this world )  the trouble 
of each particular case ,  and left nothing else connected with 
it to be looked after .  Thus ,  Tellsons ,  in its day ,  like 
greater places of business ,  its contemporaries ,  had taken 



tellsons bank 69 

so many lives ,  that ,  if the heads laid low before it had been 
ranged on Temple Bar instead of being privately disposed 
of ,  they would probably have excluded what little light the 
ground floor had ,  in a rather significant manner .  

Cramped in all kinds of dim cupboards and hutches at 
Tellsons ,  the oldest of men carried on the business gravely .  
 " When they took a young man into Tellsons London house ,  
they hid him somewhere till he was old .  They kept him in 
a dark place ,  like a cheese ,  until he had the full Tellson 
flavour and blue - mould upon him .  Then only was he 
permitted to be seen ,  spectacularly poring over large books ,  
and casting his breeches and gaiters into the general weight 
of the establishment .  

Outside Tellsons — never by any means in it ,  unless called 
in — was an odd - job - man ,  an occasional porter and messenger ,  
who served as the live sign of the house .  He was never 
absent during business hours ,  unless upon an errand ,  and 
then he was represented by his son : a grisly urchin of 
twelve ,  who was his express image .  People understood 
that Tellsons ,  in a stately way ,  tolerated the odd - job - man .  
The house had always tolerated some person in that capacity ,  
and time and tide had drifted this person to the post .  His 
surname was Cruncher ,  and on the youthful occasion of his 
renouncing by proxy the works of darkness ,  in the easterly 
parish church of Houndsditch ,  he had received the added 
appellation of Jerry .  

The scene was Mr .  Crunchers private lodging in Hang -  
ing - sword - alley ,  Whitefriars : the time ,  half - past seven of 
the clock on a windy March morning ,  Anno Domini seven -  
teen hundred and eighty .   ( Mr .  Cruncher himself always 
spoke of the year of our Lord as Anna Dominoes : apparently 
under the impression that the Christian era dated from the 
invention of a popular game ,  by a lady who had bestowed 
her name upon it .  )  

Mr .  Crunchers apartments were not in a savoury neigh -  
bourhood ,  and were but two in number ,  even if a closet with 
a single pane of glass in it might be counted as one .  But 
they were veiy decently kept .  Early as it was ,  on the 
windy March morning ,  the room in which he lay a - bed was 
already scrubbed throughout  ;  and between the cups and 
saucers arranged for breakfast ,  and the lumbering deal 
table ,  a very clean white cloth was spread .  

Mr .  Cruncher leposed under a patchwork counterpane ,  



70 A TALE OF TWO CITIES 

like a Harlequin at home .  At first ,  he slept heavily ,  hut ,  
hy degrees ,  hegan to roll and surge in hod ,  until he rose 
ahove the surface ,  with his spiky hair looking as if it must 
tear the sheets to ribbons .  At which juncture ,  he exclaimed ,  
in a voice of dire exasperation : 

 "  Bust me ,  if she aint at it agin  !   "  

A woman of orderly and industrious appearance rose 
from her knees in a corner ,  with sufficient haste and 
trepidation to show that she was the person referred to .  

• What  !   "  said Mr .  Cruncher ,  looking out of bed for a 
boot .  Youre at it agin ,  are you? "  

After hailing the morn with this second salutation ,  he 
threw a boot at the woman as a third .  It was a very 
muddy boot ,  and may introduce the odd circumstance 
connected with Mr .  Crunchers domestic economy ,  that ,  
whereas he often came home after banking hours with clean 
boots ,  he often got up next morning to find the same boots 
covered with clay ,  

 "  What ,  "  said Mr .  Cruncher ,  varying his apostrophe after 
missing his mark — what are you up to ,  Aggerawayter ?  "  

 " I was only saying my prayers .  "  

 "  Saying your prayers  !  Youre a nice woman  !  What 
do you mean by flopping yourself down and praying 
agin me ?  "  

 "  I was not praying against you : I was praying for 
you .  "  

 " You werent .  And if you were ,  I wont be took the 
liberty with .  Here  !  your mothers a nice woman ,  young 
Jerry ,  going a praying agin your fathers prosperity .  Youve 
got a dutiful mother ,  you have ,  my son .  Youve got a 
religious mother ,  you have ,  my boy : going and flopping 
herself down ,  and praying that the bread - and - butter may 
be snatched out of the mouth of her only child .  "  

Master Cruncher  ( who was in his shirt )  took this very ill ,  
and ,  turning to his mother ,  strongly deprecated any praying 
away of his personal hoaxed .  

• And what do you suppose ,  you conceited female .  "  said 
Mr .  Cruncher ,  with unconscious inconsistency .   "  that the 
worth of your prayers may be? Name the price that you 
put your prayers at  !   "  

 "  They only come from the heart ,  Jerry .  They are worth 
no more than that .  "  

 "  Worth no more than that ,  "  repeated Mr .  Cruncher .  



JERRY CRUNCHER AT HOME 71 

 "  They aint worth much ,  then .  Whether or no ,  I wont 
be prayed agin ,  I tell you .  I cant afford it .  Im not 
a going to be made unlucky by your sneaking .  If you must 
go flopping yourself down ,  flop in favour of your husband 
and child ,  and not in opposition to em .  If I had had any 
but a unnatral wife ,  and this poor boy had had any but 
a unnatral mother ,  I might have made some money last 
week instead of being counterprayed and countermined and 
religiously circumwented into the worst of luck .  B - u - u - ust 
me  !   "  said Mr .  Cruncher ,  who all this time had been putting 
on his clothes ,   "  if I aint ,  what with piety and one blowed 
thing and another ,  been choused this last week into as bad 
luck as ever a poor devil of a honest tradesman met with  !  
Young Jerry ,  dress yourself ,  my boy ,  and while I clean my 
boots keep a eye upon your mother now and then ,  and if 
you see any signs of more flopping ,  give me a call .  For ,  
I tell you ,  "  here he addressed his wife once more ,   "  I wont 
be gone agin ,  in this manner .  I am as rickety as a hackney -  
coach ,  Im as sleepy as laudanum ,  my lines is strained to 
that degree that I shouldnt know ,  if it wasnt for the pain 
in em ,  which was me and which somebody else ,  yet Im 
none the better for it in pocket  ;  and its my suspicion that 
youve been at it from morning to night to prevent me from 
being the better for it in pocket ,  and I wont put up with it ,  
Aggerawayter ,  and what do you say now  !   "  

Growling ,  in addition ,  such phrases as  " Ah !  yes !  Youre 
religious ,  too .  You wouldnt put yourself in opposition to 
the interests of your husband and child ,  would you ? Not 
you  !   "  and throwing off other sarcastic sparks from the 
whirling grindstone of his indignation ,  Mr .  Cruncher betook 
himself to his boot - cleaning and his general preparation for 
business .  In the meantime ,  his son ,  whose head was 
garnished with tenderer spikes ,  and whose young eyes stood 
close by one another ,  as his fathers did ,  kept the required 
watch upon his mother .  He greatly disturbed that poor 
woman at intervals ,  by darting out of his sleeping closet ,  
where he made his toilet ,  with a suppressed cry of  "  You 
are going to flop ,  mother .  — Halloa ,  father  !   "  and ,  after 
raising this fictitious alarm ,  darting in again with an un -  
dutiful grin .  

Mr .  Crunchers temper was not at all improved when he 
came to his breakfast .  He resented Mrs .  Crunchers saying 
grace with particular animosity .  



72 A TALE OF TWO CITIES 

 " Now ,  Aggerawayter  !  What are you up to? At it 
agin ?  "  

His wife explained that she had merely  " asked a blessing .  "  

 " Dont do it !  "  said Mr .  Cruncher ,  looking about ,  as if 
he rather expected to see the loaf disappear under the efficacy 
of his wifes petitions .   "  I aint a going to be blest out of 
house and home .  I wont have my wittles blest off my 
table .  Keep still  !   "  

Exceedingly red - eyed and grim ,  as if he had been up all 
night at a party which had taken anything but a convivial 
turn ,  Jerry Cruncher worried his breakfast rather than ate it ,  
growling over it like any four - footed inmate of a menageria 
Towards nine oclock he smoothed his ruffled aspect ,  and ,  
presenting as respectful and business - like an exterior as 
he could overlay his natural self with ,  issued forth to the 
occupation of the day .  

It could scarcely be called a trade ,  in spite of his favourite 
description of himself as  " a honest tradesman .  "  His stock 
consisted of a wooden stool ,  made out of a broken - backed 
chair cut down ,  which stool ,  young Jerry ,  walking at his 
fathers side ,  carried every morning to beneath the banking -  
house window that was nearest Temple Bar : where ,  with 
the addition of the first handful of straw that could be 
gleaned from any passing vehicle to keep the cold and wet 
from the odd - job - mans feet ,  it formed the encampment for 
the day .  On this post of his ,  Mr .  Cruncher was as well 
known to Fleet - street and the Temple ,  as the Bar itself ,  — 
and was almost as ill - looking .  

Encamped at a quarter before nine ,  in good time to touch 
his three - cornered hat to the oldest of men as they passed 
in to Tellsons ,  Jerry took up his station on this windy 
March morning ,  with young Jerry standing by him ,  when 
not engaged in making forays through the Bar ,  to inflict 
bodily and mental injuries of an acute description on 
passing boys who were small enough for his amiable 
purpose .  Father and son ,  extremely like each other ,  looking 
silently on at the morning traffic in Fleet - street ,  with their 
two heads as near to one another as the two eyes of each 
were ,  bore a considerable resemblance to a pair of monkeys .  
The resemblance was not lessened by the accidental circum -  
stance ,  that the mature Jerry bit and spat out straw ,  while 
the twinkling eyes of the youthful Jerry were as restlessly 
watchful of him as of everything eke in Fleet street .  



AN EARLY JOB FOR JERKY 73 

The head of one of the regular indoor messengers attached 
to Tellsons establishment was put through the door ,  and 
the word was given : 

 "  Porter wanted  !   "  

 "  Hooray ,  father  !  Heres an early job to begin with  !   "  

Having thus given his parent God speed ,  young Jerry 
seated himself on the stool ,  entered on his reversionary 
interest in the straw his father had been chewing ,  and 
cogitated .  

 "  Al - ways rusty  !  His fingers is al - ways rusty  !   "  muttered 
young Jerry .   "  Where does my father get all that iron rust 
from ? He dont get no iron rust here  !   "  



1 ,  03 



CHAPTER II 

A SIGHT 

• You know the Old Bailey well ,  no doubt ?  "  said one of 
the oldest of clerks to Jerry the messenger .  

 " Ye - es ,  sir ,  "  returned Jerry ,  in something of a dogged 
manner .   "  I do know the Bailey .  "  

 "  Just so .  And you know Mr .  Lorry .  "  

 " I know Mr .  Lorry ,  sir ,  much better than I know the 
Bailey .  Much better ,  "  said Jerry ,  not unlike a reluctant 
witness at the establishment in question ,   "  than I ,  as a 
honest tradesman ,  wish to know the Bailey .  "  

 " Very well .  Find the door where the witnesses go in ,  
and show the door - keeper this note for Mr .  Lorry .  He will 
then let you in .  "  

 "  Into the court ,  sir ?  "  

 "  Into the court .  "  

Mr .  Crunchers eyes seemed to get a little closer to one 
another ,  and to interchange the inquiry ,   "  What do you 
think of this? "  

Am I to wait in the court ,  sir? "  he asked ,  as the result 
of that conference .  

 "  I am going to tell you .  The door - keeper will pass the 
note to Mr .  Lorry ,  and do you make any gesture that will 
attract Mr .  Lorrys attention ,  and show him where you 
stand .  Then what you have to do ,  is ,  to remain there until 
he wants you .  "  

 "  Is that all ,  sir ?  "  

 "  Thats all .  He wishes to have a messenger at hand .  
This is to tell him you are there .  "  

As the ancient clerk deliberately folded and superscribed 
the note ,  Mr .  Cruncher ,  after surveying him in silence until 
he came to the blotting - paper stage ,  remarked : 

 "  I suppose theyll be trying Forgeries this morning ?  "  

 "  Treason  !   "  

  ;  Thats quartering /  said Jerry .   "  Barbarous  !   "  



THE OLD BAILEY 75 

• It is the law ,  "  remarked the ancient clerk ,  turning his 
surprised spectacles upon him .   "  It is the law .  "  

 "  Its hard in the law to spile a man ,  I think .  Its hard 
enough to kill him ,  but its wery hard to spile him ,  sir .  "  

 "  Not at all ,  "  returned the ancient clerk .   "  Speak well of 
the law .  Take care of your chest and voice ,  my good friend ,  
and leave the law to take care of itself .  I give you that 
advice .  "  

 "  Its the damp ,  sir ,  what settles on my chest and voice ,  "  
said Jerry .   " I leave you to judge what a damp way of 
earning a living mine is .  "  

 " Well ,  well ,  "  said the old clerk ;   " we all have our 
various ways of gaining a livelihood .  Some of us have 
damp ways ,  and some of us have dry ways .  Here is the 
letter .  Go along .  "  

Jerry took the letter ,  and ,  remarking to himself with less 
internal deference than he made an outward show of ,   "  You 
are a lean old one ,  too ,  "  made his bow ,  informed his son ,  in 
passing ,  of his destination ,  and went his way .  

They hanged at Tyburn ,  in those days ,  so the street out -  
side Newgate had not obtained one infamous notoriety that 
has since attached to it .  But ,  the gaol was a vile place ,  in 
which most kinds of debauchery and villainy were practised ,  
and where dire diseases were bred ,  that came into court with 
the prisoners ,  and sometimes rushed straight from the clock 
at my Lord Chief Justice himself ,  and pulled him off the 
bench .  It had more than once happened ,  that the Judge in 
the black cap pronounced his own doom as certainly as the 
prisoners ,  and even died before him .  For the rest ,  the Old 
Bailey was famous as a kind of deadly inn - yard ,  from which 
pale travellers set out continually ,  in carts and coaches ,  on 
a violent passage into the other world : traversing some two 
miles and a half of public street and road ,  and shaming few 
good citizens ,  if any .  So powerful is use ,  and so desirable 
to be good use in the beginning .  It was famous ,  too ,  for 
the pillory ,  a wise old institution ,  that inflicted a punish -  
ment of which no one could foresee the extent  ;  also ,  for the 
whipping - post ,  another dear old institution ,  very humanising 
and softening to behold in action  ;  also ,  for extensive trans -  
actions in blood - money ,  another fragment of ancestral wisdom ,  
systematically leading to the most frightful mercenary crimes 
that could be committed under Heaven .  Altogether ,  the 
Old Bailey ,  at that date ,  was a choice illustration of the 



76 A TALE OF TWO CITIES 

precept ,  that  "  Whatever is is right  ;   "  an aphorism that would 
be as final as it is lazy ,  did it not include the troublesome 
consequence ,  that nothing that ever was ,  was wrong .  

Making his way through the tainted crowd ,  dispersed up 
and down this hideous scene of action ,  with the skill of 
a man accustomed to make his way quietly ,  the messenger 
found out the door he sought ,  and handed in his letter 
through a trap in it .  For people then paid to see the play 
at the Old Bailey ,  just as they paid to see the play in 
Bedlam — only the former entertainment was much the 
dearer .  Therefore ,  all the Old Bailey doors were well 
guarded — except ,  indeed ,  the social doors by which the 
criminals got theie ,  and those were always left wide open .  

After some delay and demur ,  the door grudgingly turned 
on its hinges a very little way ,  and allowed Mr .  Jerry 
Cruncher to squeeze himself into court .  

• Whats on ?  "  he asked ,  in a whisper ,  of the man he 
found himself next to .  

 -  Nothing yet .  "  

 "  Whats coming on ?  "  

 "  The Treason case .  "  

 "  The quartering one ,  eh ?  "  

 "  Ah  !   "  returned the man ,  with a relish :  "  hell be drawn 
on a hurdle to be half hanged ,  and then hell be taken down 
and sliced before his own face ,  and then his inside will be 
taken out and burnt while he looks on ,  and then his head 
will be chopped off ,  and hell be cut into quarters .  Thats 
the sentence .  "  

 " If hes found Guilty ,  you mean to say? "  Jerry added ,  
by way of proviso .  

 " Oh !  theyll find him guilty ,  "  said the other .  Dont 
you be afraid of that .  "  

Mr .  Crunchers attention was here diverted to the door -  
keeper ,  whom he saw making his way to Mr .  Lorry ,  with 
the note in his hand .  Mr .  Lorry sat at a table ,  among the 
gentlemen in wigs : not far from a wigged gentleman ,  the 
prisoners counsel ,  who had a great bundle of papers before 
him : and nearly opposite another wigged gentleman with 
his hands in his pockets ,  whose whole attention ,  when 
Mr .  Cruncher looked at him then or afterwards ,  spemed to 
be concentrated on the ceiling of the court .  After some 
gruff coughing and rubbing of his chin and signing with 
his hand ,  Jerry attracted the notice of Mr .  Lorry ,  who had 



THE PRISONER 77 

stood up to look for him ,  and who quietly nodded and sat 
down again .  

 "  Whats he got to do with the case? * asked the man he 
had spoken with .  

• Blest if I know ,  "  said Jerry .  

• What have you got to do with it ,  then ,  if a person may 
inquire ?  "  

 "  Blest if I know that either ,  "  said Jerry .  

The entrance of the Judge ,  and a consequent great stir 
and settling down in the court ,  stopped the dialogue .  
Presently ,  the dock became the central point of interest .  
Two gaolers ,  who had been standing there ,  went out ,  and 
the prisoner was brought in ,  and put to the bar .  

Everybody present ,  except the one wigged gentleman who 
looked at the ceiling ,  stared at him .  All the human breath 
in the place ,  rolled at him ,  like a sea ,  or a wind ,  or a fire .  
Eager faces strained round pillars and corners ,  to get a sight 
of him  ;  spectators in back rows stood up ,  not to miss a hair 
of him  ;  people on the floor of the court ,  laid their hands 
on the shoulders of the people before them ,  to help them -  
selves ,  at anybodys cost ,  to a view of him — stood a - tiptoe ,  
got upon ledges ,  stood upon next to nothing ,  to see every 
inch of him .  Conspicuous among these latter ,  like an ani -  
mated bit of the spiked wall of Newgate ,  Jerry stood : 
aiming at the prisoner the beery breath of a whet he had 
taken as he came along ,  and discharging it to mingle with 
the waves of other beer ,  and gin ,  and tea ,  and coffee ,  and 
what not ,  that flowed at him ,  and already broke upon the 
great windows behind him in an impure mist and rain .  

The object of all this staring and blaring ,  was a young 
man of about five - and - twenty ,  well - grown and well - looking ,  
with a sunburnt cheek and a dark eye .  His condition was 
that of a young gentleman .  He was plainly dressed in black ,  
or very dark grey ,  and his hair ,  which was long and dark ,  
was gathered in a ribbon at the back of his neck  ;  more to 
be out of his way than for ornament .  As an emotion of the 
mind will express itself through any covering of the body ,  
so the paleness which his situation engendered came through 
the brown upon his cheek ,  showing the soul to be stronger 
than the sun .  He was otherwise quite self - possessed ,  bowed 
to the Judge ,  and stood quiet .  

The sort of interest with which this man was stared and 
breathed at ,  was not a sort that elevated humanity .  Had 



78 A TALE OF TWO CITIES 

he stood in peril of a less horrible sentence — had there been 
a chance of any one of its savage details being spared — by 
just so much would he have lost in his fascination .  The 
form that was to be doomed to be so shamefully mangled ,  
was the sight  ;  the immortal creature that was to be so 
butchered and torn asunder ,  yielded the sensation .  What -  
ever gloss the various spectators put upon the interest ,  
according to their several arts and powers of self - deceit ,  the 
interest was ,  at the root of it ,  Ogreish .  

Silence in the court  !  Charles Darnay had yesterday 
pleaded Not Guilty to an indictment denouncing him  ( with 
infinite jingle and jangle )  for that he was a false traitor to 
our serene ,  illustrious ,  excellent ,  and so forth ,  prince ,  our 
Lord the King ,  by reason of his having ,  on divers occasions ,  
and by divers means and ways ,  assisted Lewis ,  the French 
King ,  in his wars against our said serene ,  illustrious ,  
excellent ,  and so forth  ;  that was to say ,  by coming and 
going ,  between the dominions of our said serene ,  illustrious ,  
excellent ,  and so forth ,  and those of the said French Lewis ,  
and wickedly ,  falsely ,  traitorously ,  and otherwise evil -  
adverbiously ,  revealing to the said French Lewis what 
forces our said serene ,  illustrious ,  excellent ,  and so forth ,  
had in preparation to send to Canada and North America .  
This much ,  Jerry ,  with his head becoming more and more 
spiky as the law terms bristled it ,  made out with huge 
satisfaction ,  and so arrived circuitously at the understanding 
that the aforesaid ,  and over and over again aforesaid .  Charles 
Darnay ,  stood there before him upon his trial  ;  that the 
jury were swearing in  ;  and that Mr .  Attorney - General was 
making ready to speak .  

The accused ,  who was  ( and who knew he was )  being 
mentally hanged ,  beheaded ,  and quartered ,  by everybody 
there ,  neither flinched from the situation ,  nor assumed any 
theatrical air in it .  He was quiet and attentive  ;  watched 
the opening proceedings with a grave interest  ;  and stood 
with his hands resting on the slab of wood before him ,  so 
composedly ,  that they had not displaced a leaf of the herbs 
with which it was strewn .  The court was all bestrewn 
with herbs and sprinkled with vinegar ,  as a precaution 
against gaol air and gaol fever .  

Over the prisoners head there was a mirror ,  to throw the 
light down upon him .  Crowds of the wicked and the 
wretched had been reflected in it .  and had passed from its 






ATTAINTED OF HIGH TREASON 79 

surface and this earths together .  Haunted in a most ghastly 
manner that abominahle place would have been ,  if the glass 
could ever have rendered back its reflections ,  as the ocean 
is one day to give up its dead .  Some passing thought of 
the infamy and disgrace for which it had been reserved ,  may 
have struck the prisoners mind .  Be that as it may ,  a change 
in his position making him conscious of a bar of light across 
his face ,  he looked up  ;  and when he saw the glass his face 
flushed ,  and his right hand pushed the herbs away .  

It happened ,  that the action turned his face to that side 
of the court which was on his left .  About on a level with 
his eyes ,  there sat ,  in that corner of the Judges bench ,  two 
persons upon whom his look immediately rested  ;  so imme -  
diately ,  and so much to the changing of his aspect ,  that all 
the eyes that were turned upon him ,  turned to them .  

The spectators saw in the two figures ,  a young lady of 
little more than twenty ,  and a gentleman who was evidently 
her father  ;  a man of a very remarkable appearance in respect 
of the absolute whiteness of his hair ,  and a certain indescrib -  
able intensity of face : not of an active kind ,  but pondering 
and self - communing .  When this expression was upon him ,  
he looked as if he were old  ;  but when it was stirred and 
broken up — as it was now ,  in a moment ,  on his speaking to 
his daughter — he became a handsome man ,  not past the 
prime of life .  

His daughter had one of her hands drawn through his arm ,  
as she sat by him ,  and the other pressed upon it .  She had 
drawn close to him ,  in her dread of the scene ,  and in her pity 
for the prisoner .  Her forehead had been strikingly expressive 
of an engrossing terror and compassion that saw nothing but 
the peril of the accused .  This had been so very noticeable ,  
so very powerfully and naturally shown ,  that starers who had 
had no pity for him were touched by her  ;  and the whisper 
went about ,   "  Who are they ?  "  

Jerry ,  the messenger ,  who had made his own observations ,  
in his own manner ,  and who had been sucking the rust ofi 
his fingers in his absorption ,  stretched his neck to hear who 
they weie .  The crowd about him had pressed and passed 
the inquiry on to the nearest attendant ,  and from him it had 
been more slowly pressed and passed back  ;  at last it got to 
Jerry : 

 "  Witnesses .  "  

 " For which side? "  



80 A TALE OF TWO CITIES 

 " Against .  "  

 "  Against what side ?  "  

 " The prisoners .  "  

The Judge ,  whose eyes had gone in the general direction ,  
recalled them ,  leaned back in his seat ,  and looked steadily at 
the man whose life was in his hand ,  as Mr .  Attorney - General 
rose to spin the rope ,  grind the axe ,  and hammer the nails 
into the scaffold .  



CHAPTER III 



A DISAPPOINTMENT 



Me .  Attorney - General had to inform the jury ,  that the 
prisoner before them ,  though young in years ,  was old in the 
treasonable practices which claimed the forfeit of his life .  
That this correspondence with the public enemy was not 
a correspondence of to - day ,  or of yesterday ,  or even of last 
year ,  or of the year before .  That ,  it was certain the prisoner 
had ,  for longer than that ,  been in the habit of passing and 
repassing between France and England ,  on secret business of 
which he could give no honest account .  That ,  if it were 
in the nature of traitorous ways to thrive  ( which happily it 
never was )  ,  the real wickedness and guilt of his business 
might have remained undiscovered .  That Providence ,  
however ,  had put it into the heart of a person who was 
beyond fear and beyond reproach ,  to ferret out the nature 
of the prisoners schemes ,  and ,  struck with horror ,  to dis -  
close them to his Majestys Chief Secretary of State and 
most honourable Privy Council .  That ,  this patriot would 
be produced before them .  That ,  his position and attitude 
were ,  on the whole ,  sublime .  That ,  he had been the 
prisoners friend ,  but ,  at once in an auspicious and an evil 
hour detecting his infamy ,  had resolved to immolate the 
traitor he could no longer cherish in his bosom ,  on the 
sacred altar of his country .  That ,  if statues were decreed 
in Britain ,  as in ancient Greece and Rome ,  to public bene -  
factors ,  this shining citizen would assuredly have had 
one .  That ,  as they were not so decreed ,  he probably 
would not have one .  That ,  Virtue ,  as had been observed by 
the poets  ( in many passages which he well knew the jury 
would have ,  word for word ,  at the tips of their tongues  ;  
whereat the jurys countenances displayed a guilty conscious -  
ness that they knew nothing about the passages )  ,  was in a 
manner contagious  ;  more especially the bright virtue known 



82 A TALE OF TWO CITIES 

as patriotism ,  or love of country .  That ,  the lofty example of 
this immaculate and unimpeachable witness for the Crown ,  to 
refer to whom however unworthily was an honour ,  had com -  
municated itself to the prisoners servant ,  and had engendered 
in him a holy determination to examine his masters table -  
drawers and pockets ,  and secrete his papers .  That ,  he  ( Mr .  
Attorney - General )  was prepared to hear some disparagement 
attempted of this admirable servant  ;  but that ,  in a general 
way ,  he preferred him to his  ( Mr .  Attorney - Generals )  brothers 
and sisters ,  and honoured him more than his  ( Mr .  Attorney -  
Generals )  father and mother .  That ,  he called with confidence 
on the jury to come and do likewise .  That ,  the evidence of 
these two witnesses ,  coupled with the documents of their dis -  
covering that would be produced ,  would show the prisoner 
to have been furnished with lists of his Majestys forces ,  
and of their disposition and preparation ,  both by sea and 
land ,  and would leave no doubt that he had habitually con -  
veyed such information to a hostile power .  That ,  these lists 
could not be proved to be in the prisoners handwriting  ;  
but that it was all the same  ;  that ,  indeed ,  it was rather the 
better for the prosecution ,  as showing the prisoner to be 
artful in his precautions .  That ,  the proof would go back 
five years ,  and would show the prisoner already engaged in 
these pernicious missions ,  within a few weeks before the date 
of the very first action fought between the British troops and 
the Americans .  That ,  for these reasons ,  the jury ,  being a 
loyal jury  ( as he knew they were )  ,  and being a responsible 
jury  ( as they knew they were )  ,  must positively find the prisoner 
Guilty ,  and make an end of him ,  whether they liked it or not .  
That ,  they never could lay their heads upon their pillows  ;  
that ,  they never could tolerate the idea of their wives laying 
their heads upon their pillows  ;  that ,  they never could endure 
the notion of their children laying their heads upon their 
pillows  ;  in short ,  that there never more could be ,  for them 
or theirs ,  any laying of heads upon pillows at all ,  unless the 
prisoners head was taken off .  That head Mr .  Attorney -  
General concluded by demanding of them ,  in the name of 
everything he could think of with a round turn in it .  and 
on the faith of his solemn asseveration that he already con -  
sidered the prisoner as good as dead and gone .  

When the Attorney - General ceased ,  a buzz arose in the 
court as if a cloud of great blue - flies were swarming about 
the prisoner ,  in anticipation of what be was soon to become .  



THE PATRIOTIC WITNESS 83 

When toned down again ,  the unimpeachable patriot appeared 
in the witness - box .  

Mr .  Solicitor - General then ,  following his leaders lead ,  
examined the patriot: John Barsad ,  gentleman ,  by name .  
The story of his pure soul was exactly what Mr .  Attorney -  
General had described it to be — perhaps ,  if it had a fault ,  a 
little too exactly .  Having released his noble bosom of its 
burden ,  he would have modestly withdrawn himself ,  but that 
the wigged gentleman with the papers before him ,  sitting 
not far from Mr .  Lorry ,  begged to ask him a few questions .  
The wigged gentleman sitting opposite ,  still looking at the 
ceiling of the court .  

Had he ever been a spy himself ? No ,  he scorned the base 
insinuation .  What did he live upon ? His property .  Where 
was his property ? He didnt precisely remember where it 
was .  What was it? No business of anybodys .  Had he 
inherited it ? Yes ,  he had .  From whom ? Distant relation .  
Very distant? Bather .  Ever been in prison? Certainly 
not .  Never in a debtors prison ? Didnt see what that had 
to do with it .  Never in a debtors prison ? — Come ,  once 
again .  Never? Yes .  How many times? Two or three 
times .  Not five or six ? Perhaps .  Of what profession ? 
Gentleman .  Ever been kicked ? Might have been .  Fre -  
quently ? No .  Ever kicked down - stairs ? Decidedly not  ;  
once received a kick on the top of a staircase ,  and fell down -  
stairs of his own accord .  Kicked on that occasion for cheating 
at dice ? Something to that effect was said by the intoxi -  
cated liar who committed the assault ,  but it was not true .  
Swear it was not true ? Positively .  Ever live by cheating 
at play ? Never .  Ever live by play ? Not more than other 
gentlemen do .  Ever borrow money of the prisoner ? Yes .  
Ever pay him? No .  Was not this intimacy with the 
prisoner ,  in reality a very slight one ,  forced upon the prisoner 
in coaches ,  inns ,  and packets ? No .  Sure he saw the prisoner 
with these lists ? Certain .  Knew no more about the lists ? 
No .  Had not procured them himself ,  for instance ? No .  
Expect to get anything by this evidence ? No .  Not in 
regular government pay and employment ,  to lay traps ? Oh 
dear no .  Or to do anything ? Oh dear no .  Swear that ? 
Over and over again .  No motives but motives of sheer 
patriotism ? None whatever .  

The virtuous servant ,  Koger Cly ,  swore his way through 
the case at a great rate .  He had taken service with the 



84 A TALE OF TWO CITIES 

prisoner ,  in good faitli and simplicity ,  four years ago .  He 
had asked the prisoner ,  aboard the Calais packet ,  if lie 
wanted a handy fellow ,  and the prisoner had engaged him .  
He had not asked the prisoner to take the handy fellow as an 
act of charity —  - never thought of such a thing .  He began to 
have suspicions of the prisoner ,  and to keep an eye upon him ,  
soon afterwards .  In arranging his clothes ,  while travelling ,  
he had seen similar lists to these in the prisoners pockets ,  over 
and over again .  He had taken these lists from the drawer 
of the prisoners desk .  He had not put them there first .  
He had seen the prisoner show these identical lists to French 
gentlemen at Calais ,  and similar lists to French gentlemen ,  
both at Calais and Boulogne .  He loved his country ,  and 
couldnt bear it ,  and had given information .  He had never 
been suspected of stealing a silver tea - pot  ;  he had been 
maligned respecting a mustard - pot ,  but it turned out to be 
only a plated one .  He had known the last witness seven or 
eight years  ;  that was merely a coincidence .  He didnt call 
it a particularly curious coincidence  ;  most coincidences Avere 
curious .  Neither did he call it a curious coincidence that 
true patriotism was liis only motive too .  He was a true 
Briton ,  and hoped there were many like him .  

The blue - flies buzzed again ,  and Mr .  Attorney - General 
called Mr .  Jarvis Lorry .  

 "  Mr .  Jarvis Lorry ,  are you a clerk in Tellsons bank ?  "  

 " lam .  "  

 " Ona certain Friday night in November one thousand 
seven hundred and seventy - five ,  did business occasion you to 
travel between London and Dover by the mail ?  "  

 "  It did .  "  

 " Were there any other passengers in the mail ? * 

 " Two .  "  

 "  Did they alight on the road in the course of the night ?  "  

 " They did .  "  

 "  Mr .  Lorry ,  look upon the prisoner .  Was he one of those 
two passengers ?  "  

 " I cannot undertake to say that he was .  "  

 "  Does he resemble either of these two passengers ? "  

 " Both were so wrapped up ,  and the night was so dark ,  
and we were all so reserved ,  that I cannot undertake to say 
even that .  "  

 " Mr .  Lorry ,  look again upon the prisoner .  Supposing 
him Wrapped up as those two passengers were ,  is there any -  



MR .  LOKRYS EVIDENCE 85 

thing in his bulk and stature to render it unlikely that he 
Mas one of them ?  "  

 " No . *  -  

 "  You will not swear .  Mr .  Lorry ,  that he was not one of 

them? "  

 " No .  "  

 "  So at least you say he may have been one of them ?  "  

 "  Yes .  Except that I remember them both to have been— 
like myself— timorous of highwaymen ,  and the prisoner has 
not a timorous air .  "  

 "  Did you ever see a counterfeit of timidity ,  Mr .  Lorry ?  "  

 " I certainly have seen that .  "  

 " Mr .  Lorry ,  look once more upon the prisoner .  Have 
you seen him ,  to your certain knowledge ,  before ?  "  

 " I have .  "  

 " When? "  

 "  I was returning from France a few days afterwards ,  and ,  
at Calais ,  the prisoner came on board the packet - ship in 
which I returned ,  and made the voyage with me .  "  

 "  At what hour did he come on board ?  "  

 " At a little after midnight .  "  

 "  In the dead of the night .  Was he the only passenger 
who came on board at that untimely hour ?  "  

 " He happened to be the only one .  "  

 " Never mind about happening .  Mr .  Lorry .  He was 
the only passenger who came on board in the dead of the 
night ?  "  

 "  He was .  "  

 " Were you travelling alone ,  Mr .  Lorry ,  or with any com -  
panion ?  "  

 " With two companions .  A gentleman and lady .  They 
are here .  "  

 "  They are here .  Had you any conversation with the 
prisoner ?  "  

 "  Hardly any .  The weather was stormy ,  and the passage 
long and rough ,  and I lay on a sofa ,  almost from shore to 
shore .  "  

 "  Miss Manette  !   "  

The young lady ,  to whom all eyes had been turned before ,  
and were now turned again ,  stood up where she had sat .  
Her father rose with her ,  and kept her hand drawn through 
his arm .  

 " Miss Manette ,  look upon the prisoner .  "  



86 A TALE OF TWO CITIES 

To be confronted with such pity ,  and such earnest youth 
and beauty ,  was far more trying to the accused than to be 
confronted with all the crowd .  Standing ,  as it were ,  apart 
with her on the edge of his grave ,  not all the staring curiosity 
that looked on ,  could ,  for the moment ,  nerve him to remain 
quite still .  His hurried right hand parcelled out the herbs 
before him into imaginary beds of flowers in a garden : and 
his efforts to control and steady his breathing shook the lips 
from which the colour rushed to his heart .  The buzz of the 
great flies was loud again .  

 "  Miss Manette ,  have you seen the prisoner before ?  "  

 " Yes ,  sir .  "  

 "  Where ?  "  

 " On board of the packet - ship just now referred to ,  sir .  and 
on the same occasion .  "  

 " You are the young lady just now referred to? "  

 " 0 !  most unhappily ,  I am  !   "  

The plaintive tone of her compassion merged into the less 
musical voice of the Judge ,  as he said something fiercely : 
 " Answer the questions put to you ,  and make no remark 
upon them .  "  

 "  Miss Manette ,  had you any conversation with the prisoner 
on that passage across the Channel? 

 "  Yes ,  sir .  "  

 " Recall it ,  "  

In the midst of a profound stillness ,  she faintly began : 

 " When the gentleman came on board  "  

 " Do you mean the prisoner? "  inquired the Judge ,  knit -  
ting his brows .  

 "  Yes ,  my Lord .  "  

 " Then say the prisoner .  "  

 " When the prisoner came on board ,  he noticed that my 
father ,  "  turning her eyes lovingly to him as he stood beside 
her .   "  was much fatigued and in a veiy weak state of health .  
My father was so reduced that I was afraid to take him out 
of the air ,  and I had made a bed for him on the deck near 
the cabin steps ,  and I sat on the deck at his side to take 
care of him .  There were no other passengers that night ,  
but we four .  The prisoner was so good as to beg permission 
to advise me how I could shelter my father from the wind 
and weather ,  better than I had done .  I had not known how 
to do it well ,  not understanding how the wind would set 
when we were out uf the harbour .  He did it for me .  He 



miss manettes evidence 87 

expressed great gentleness tmd kindness for my fathers state ,  
and I am sure he felt it .  That was the manner of our 
beginning to speak together .  "  

 "  Let me interrupt you for a moment .  Had he come on 
board alone? "  

 " No .  "  

 "  How many were with him ?  "  

 "  Two French gentlemen .  "  

 "  Had they conferred together ?  "  

 " They had conferred together until the last moment ,  
when it was necessary for the French gentlemen to be landed 
in their boat .  "  

 " Had any papers been handed about among them ,  similar 
to these lists ?  "  

 "  Some papers had been handed about among them ,  but I 
dont know what papers .  "  

 "  Like these in shape and size ?  "  

 "  Possibly ,  but indeed I dont know ,  although they stood 
whispering very near to me : because they stood at the top 
of the cabin steps to have the light of the lamp that was 
hanging there  ;  it was a dull lamp ,  and they spoke very low ,  
and I did not hear what they said ,  and saw only that they 
looked at papers .  "  

 "  Now ,  to the prisoners conversation .  Miss Manette .  "  

 "  The prisoner was as open in his confidence with me — 
which arose out of my helpless situation — as he was kind ,  
and good ,  and useful to my father .  I hope ,  "  bursting into 
tears ,   " I may not repay him by doing him harm to - day .  "  

Buzzing from the blue - flies .  

 "  Miss Manette ,  if the prisoner does not perfectly under -  
stand that you give the evidence which it is your duty to 
give— which you must give — and which you cannot escape 
from giving— with great unwillingness ,  he is the only person 
present in that condition .  Please to go on .  "  

 "  He told me that he was travelling on business of a 
delicate and difficult nature ,  which might get people into 
trouble ,  and that he was therefore travelling under an 
assumed name .  He said that this business had ,  within a 
few days ,  taken him to France ,  and might ,  at intervals ,  take 
him backwards and forwards between France and England 
for a long time to come .  "  

 "  Did he say anything about America ,  Miss Manette ? Be 
particular .  "  



88 A TALE OF TWO CITIES 

• " He tried to explain to me how that quarrel had arisen ,  
ami he said that ,  so far as he could judge ,  it was a wrong 
and foolish one on Englands part .  He added ,  in a jesting 
way ,  that perhaps George Washington might gain almost as 
great a name in history as George the Third .  But there was 
no harm in his way of saying this : it was said laughingly ,  
and to beguile the time .  "  

Any strongly marked expression of face on the part of a 
chief actor in a scene of great interest to whom many eyes 
are directed ,  will be unconsciously imitated by the spectators .  
Her forehead was painfully anxious and intent as she gave 
this evidence ,  and ,  in the pauses when she stopped for the 
Judge to write it down ,  watched its effect upon the counsel 
for and against .  Among the lookers - on there was the same 
expression in all quarters of the court  ;  insomuch ,  that a great 
majority of the foreheads there ,  might have been mirrors 
reflecting the witness ,  Avhen the Judge looked up from his 
notes to glare at that tremendous heresy about George 
Washington .  

Mr .  Attorney - General now signified to my Lord ,  that he 
deemed it necessary ,  as a matter of precaution and form ,  to 
call the young ladys father ,  Doctor Manette .  Who was 
called accordingly .  

 " Doctor Manette ,  look upon the prisoner .  Have you ever 
seen him before ?  "  

 "  Once .  When he called at my lodgings in London .  
Some three years ,  or three years and a half ago .  "  

 " Can you identify him as your fellow - passenger on board 
the packet ,  or speak to his conversation with your daughter ?  "  

 " Sir ,  I can do neither .  "  

 " Is there any particular and special reason for your being 
unable to do either ?  "  

He answered ,  in a low voice ,   " There is .  "  

 "  Has it been your misfortune to undergo a long imprison^ 
ment ,  without trial ,  or even accusation ,  in your native country 
Doctor Manette ?  "  

He answered ,  in a tone that went to every heart .   "  A lonj 
imprisonment .  "  

 "  Were you newly released on the occasion in question ? 

 " They tell me so .  "  

 "  Have you no remembrance of the occasion ?  

 " None .  My mind is a blank ,  from some time — 1 cannot 
even say what time— when I employed myself ,  in my captivity .  







K 

w 
w 



w 



A REMARKABLE LIKENESS 9 1 

in making shoes ,  to the time when I found myself living in 
London with my dear daughter here .  She had become 
familiar to me ,  when a gracious God restored my faculties  ;  
but ,  I am quite unable even to say how she had become 
familiar .  I have no remembrance of the process .  "  

Mr .  Attorney - General sat clown ,  and the father and daugh -  
ter sat down together .  

A singular circumstance then arose in the case .  The 
object in hand being to show that the prisoner went down ,  
with some fellow - plotter untracked ,  in the Dover mail on 
that Friday night in November five years ago ,  and got out of 
the mail in the night ,  as a blind ,  at a place where he did 
not remain ,  but from which he travelled back some dozen 
miles or more ,  to a garrison and dockyard ,  and there collected 
information  ;  a witness was called to identify him as having 
been at the precise time required ,  in the coffee - room of an 
hotel in that garrison - and - dockyard town ,  waiting for another 
person .  The prisoners counsel was cross - examining this 
witness with no result ,  except that he had never seen the 
prisoner on any other occasion ,  when the wigged gentleman 
who had all this time been looking at the ceiling of the 
court ,  wrote a word or two on a little piece of paper ,  screwed 
it up ,  and tossed it to him .  Opening this piece of paper in 
the next pause ,  the counsel looked with great attention and 
curiosity at the prisoner .  

 " You say again you are quite sure that it was the 
prisoner ?  "  

The witness was quite sure .  

 " Did you ever see anybody very like the prisoner? "  

Not so like  ( the witness said )  as that he coidd be mistaken .  

 "  Look well upon that gentleman ,  my learned friend there ,  "  

pointing to him who had tossed the paper over ,   "  and then 

look well upon the prisoner .  How say you ? Are they very 

like each other ?  "  

Allowing for my learned friends appearance being care -  
less and slovenly if not debauched ,  they were sufficiently 
like each other to surprise ,  not only the witness ,  but every -  
body present ,  when they were thus brought into comparison .  
My Lord being prayed to bid my learned friend lay aside 
his wig ,  and giving no veiy gracious consent ,  the likeness 
became much more remarkable .  My Lord inquired of 
Mr .  Stryver  ( the prisoners counsel )  ,  whether they were next 
to try Mi \  Carton  ( name of my learned friend )  for treason ? 



92 A TALE OF TWO CITIES 

But ,  Mr .  Stryver replied to my Lord ,  no  ;  but he would ask 
the witness to tell him whether what happened once ,  might 
happen twice  ;  whether he would have been so confident if 
he had seen this illustration of his rashness sooner ,  whether 
he would be so confident ,  having seen it  ;  and more .  The 
upshot of which was ,  to smash this witness like a crockery 
vessel ,  and shiver his part of the case to useless lumber .  

Mr .  Cruncher had by this time taken quite a lunch of 
rust off his fingers in his following of the evidence .  He 
had now to attend while Mr .  Stryver fitted the prisoners 
case on the jury ,  like a compact suit of clothes  ;  showing 
them how the patriot ,  Barsad ,  was a hired spy and traitor ,  
an unblushing trafficker in blood ,  and one of the greatest 
scoundrels upon earth since accursed Judas — which he cer -  
tainly did look rather like .  How the virtuous servant ,  Cly ,  
was his friend and partner ,  and was worthy to be  ;  how the 
watchful eyes of those forgers and false swearers had rested 
on the prisoner as a victim ,  because some family affairs in 
France ,  he being of French extraction ,  did require his 
making those passages across the Channel — though what 
those affairs were ,  a consideration for others who were near 
and dear to him ,  forbad him ,  even for his life ,  to disclose .  
How the evidence that had been warped and wrested from 
the young lady ,  whose anguish in giving it they had wit -  
nessed ,  came to nothing ,  involving the mere little innocent 
gallantries and politenesses likely to pass between any young 
gentleman and young lady so thrown together  ;  — with the 
exception of that reference to George Washington ,  which 
was altogether too extravagant and impossible to be regarded 
in any other light than as a monstrous joke .  How it would 
be a weakness in the government to break down in this 
attempt to practise for popularity on the lowest national 
antipathies and fears ,  and therefore Mr .  Attorney - General 
had made the most of it  ;  how ,  nevertheless ,  it rested upon 
nothing ,  save that vile and infamous character of evidence 
too often disfiguring such cases ,  and of which the State 
Trials of this country were full .  But ,  there my Lord inter -  
posed  ( with as grave a face as if it had not been true )  ,  
saying that he could not sit upon that Bench and suffer 
those allusions .  

Mr .  Stryver then called his few witnesses ,  and Mr .  Cruncher 
had next to attend while Mr .  Attorney - General turned the 
whole suit of clothes Mr .  Stryver had fitted on the jury ,  



MR .  CARTON AND THE DEFENCE 93 

inside out  ;  showing how Barsad and Cly were even a 
hundred times better than he had thought them ,  and the 
prisoner a hundred times worse .  Lastly ,  came my Lord 
himself ,  turning the suit of clothes ,  now inside out ,  now 
outside in ,  but on the whole decidedly trimming and 
shaping them into grave - clothes for the prisoner .  

And now ,  the jury turned to consider ,  and the great flies 
swarmed again .  

Mr .  Carton ,  who had so long sat looking at the ceiling of 
the court ,  changed neither his place nor his attitude ,  even in 
this excitement .  While his learned friend ,  Mr .  Stryver ,  
massing his papers before him ,  whispered with those who 
sat near ,  and from time to time glanced anxiously at the 
jury  ;  while all the spectators moved more or less ,  and 
grouped themselves anew  ;  while even my Lord himself 
arose from his seat ,  and slowly paced up and down his 
platform ,  not unattended by a suspicion in the minds of the 
audience that his state was feverish  ;  this one man sat lean -  
ing back ,  with his torn gown half off him ,  his untidy wig 
put on just as it had happened to light on his head after its 
removal ,  his hands in his pockets ,  and his eyes on the ceiling 
as they had been all day .  Something especially reckless in 
his demeanour ,  not only gave him a disreputable look ,  but 
so diminished the strong resemblance he undoubtedly bore 
to the prisoner  ( which his momentary earnestness ,  when 
they were compared together ,  had strengthened )  ,  that many 
of the lookers - on ,  taking note of him now ,  said to one 
another they would hardly have thought the two were so 
alike .  Mr .  Cruncher made the observation to his next 
neighbour ,  and added ,   " Id hold half a guinea that he dont 
get no law - work to do .  Dont look like the sort of one to 
get any ,  do he ?  "  

Yet ,  this Mr .  Carton took in more of the details of the 
scene than he appeared to take in  ;  for now ,  when Miss 
Manettes head dropped upon her fathers breast ,  he was the 
first to see it ,  and to say audibly :  "  Officer  !  look to that 
young lady .  Help the gentleman to take her out .  Dont 
you see she will fall  !   "  

There was much commiseration for her as she was 
removed ,  and much sympathy with her father .  It had evi -  
dently been a great distress to him ,  to have the days of his 
imprisonment recalled .  He had shown strong internal agita -  
tion when he was questioned ,  and that pondering or bruod -  



94 A TALE OF TWO CITIES 

ing look which made him old ,  had been upon him ,  like 
a heavy cloud ,  ever since .  As he passed out ,  the jury ,  who 
had turned hack and paused a moment ,  spoke ,  through their 
foreman .  

They were not agreed ,  and wished to retire .  My Lord 
 ( perhaps with George Washington on his mind )  showed 
some surprise that they were not agreed ,  hut signified his 
pleasure that they should retire under watch and ward ,  and 
retired himself .  The trial had lasted all day ,  and the lamps 
in the court were now being lighted .  It began to be ru -  
moured that the jury would be out a long while .  The 
spectators dropped off to get refreshment ,  and the prisoner 
withdrew to the back of the dock ,  and sat down .  

Mr .  Lorry ,  who had gone out when the young lady and 
her father went out ,  now reappeared ,  and beckoned to Jerry : 
who ,  in the slackened interest ,  could easily get near him .  

 " Jerry ,  if you wish to take something to eat ,  you can .  
But ,  keep in the way .  You will be sure to hear when the 
jury come in .  Dont be a moment behind them ,  for I want 
you to take the verdict back to the bank .  You are the 
cpiickest messenger I know ,  and will get to Temple Bar long -  
before I can .  "  

Jerry had just enough forehead to knuckle ,  and he knuckled 
it in acknowledgment of this communication and a shilling .  
Mr .  Carton came up at the moment ,  and touched Mr .  Lorry 
on the arm .  

 "  How is the young lady ?  "  

 "  She is greatly distressed  ;  but her father is comforting 
her ,  and she feels the better for being out of court .  "  

 "  Ill tell the prisoner so .  It wont do for a respectalde 
bank gentleman like you ,  to be seen speaking to him publicly ,  
you know .  "  

Mr .  Lorry reddened as if he were conscious of having 
debated the point in his mind ,  and Mr .  Carton made his way 
to the outside of the bar .  The way out of court lay in that 
direction ,  and Jerry followed him ,  all eyes ,  ears ,  and spikes .  

 "  Mr .  Darnay  !   "  

The ju - isoner came forward directly .  

 " You will naturally be anxious to hear of the witness ,  
Miss Manette .  She will do very well .  You have seen the 
worst of her agitation .  "  

 "  I am deeply sorry to have been the cause of it .  Could 
you tell her so for me .  with my fervent acknowledgments? "  



ACQUITTED 95 

 "  Yes ,  I could .  I will ,  if you ask it .  "  

Mr .  Cartons manner was so careless as to be almost inso -  
lent .  He stood ,  half turned from the prisoner ,  lounging 
with his elbow against the bai \  

 "  I do ask it .  Accept my cordial thanks .  "  

 " What ,  "  said Carton ,  still only half turned towards him ,  
 "  do you expect ,  Mr .  Darnay ?  "  

 "  The worst .  "  

 " Its the wisest thing to expect ,  and the likeliest .  But 
I think their withdrawing is in your favour .  "  

Loitering on the way out of court not being allowed ,  Jerry 
heard no more : but left them — so like each other in feature ,  
so unlike each other in manner — standing side by side ,  both 
reflected in the glass above them .  

An hour and a half limped heavily away in the thief - and -  
rascal crowded passages below ,  even though assisted off with 
mutton pies and ale .  The hoarse messenger ,  uncomfortably 
seated on a form after taking that refection ,  had dropped 
into a doze ,  when a loud murmur and a rapid tide of people 
setting up the stairs that led to the court ,  carried him along 
with them .  

 "  Jerry  !  Jerry  !   "  Mr .  Lorry was already calling at the 
door when he got there .  

 "  Here ,  sir  !  Its a fight to get back again .  Here I am ,  
sir  !   "  

Mr .  Lorry handed him a paper through the throng .  
 "  Quick  !  Have you got it ?  "  

 "  Yes ,  sir  !   "  

Hastily written on the paper was the word  " Acquitted .  "  

 "  If you had sent the message ,   Recalled to Life ,  again ,  "  
muttered Jerry ,  as he turned ,   " I should have known what 
you meant ,  this time .  "  

He had no opportunity of saying ,  or so much as thinking ,  
anything else ,  until he was clear of the Old Bailey  ;  for ,  the 
crowd came pouring out with a vehemence that nearly took 
him off his legs ,  and a loud buzz swept into the street as 
if the baffled blue - flies were dispersing in search of other 
carrion .  



CHAPTER IV 

CONGRATULATORY 

From the dimly - lighted passages of the court ,  the last sedi -  
ment of the human stew that had been boiling there all 
day ,  was straining off ,  when Doctor Manette ,  Lucie Manette ,  
his daughter ,  Mr .  Lorry ,  the solicitor for the defence ,  and 
its counsel ,  Mr .  Stiyver ,  stood gathered round Mr .  Charles 
Darnay — just released — congratulating him on his escape 
from death .  

It would have been difficult by a far brighter light ,  to 
recognise in Doctor Manette ,  intellectual of face and upright 
of bearing ,  the shoemaker of the garret in Paris .  Yet ,  no 
one could have looked at him twice ,  without looking again : 
even though the opportunity of observation had not extended 
to the mournful cadence of his low grave voice ,  and to the 
abstraction that overclouded him fitfully ,  without any appa -  
rent reason .  While one external cause ,  and that a reference 
to his long lingering agony ,  would always — as on the trial — 
evoke this condition from the depths of his soul ,  it was also 
in its nature to arise of itself ,  and to draw a gloom over him ,  
as incomprehensible to those unacquainted with his story as 
if they had seen the shadow of the actual Bastille thrown 
upon him by a summer sun ,  when the substance was three 
hundred miles away .  

Only his daughter had the power of charming this black 
brooding from his mind .  She was the golden thread that 
united him to a Past be )  r ond his misery ,  and to a Present 
beyond his misery : and the sound of her voice ,  the light of 
her face ,  the touch of her hand ,  had a strong beneficial 
influence with him almost always .  Not absolutely always ,  
for she could recall some occasions on which her power 
had failed  ;  but they were few and slight ,  and she believed 
them over .  

Mr .  Darnay had kissed her hand fervently and gratefully ,  
and had turned to Mr .  Stryver ,  whom he warmly thanked .  
Mr .  Stryver ,  a man of little more than thirty ,  but looking 




o 

> -  (  
H 
< 

P 

H 
<< ;  

PS 

o 
o 



MR .  STRYVER S CONGRATULATIONS 99 

twenty years older than he was ,  stout ,  loud ,  red ,  bluff ,  and 
free from any drawback of delicacy ,  had a pushing way of 
shouldering himself  ( morally and physically )  into companies 
and conversations ,  that argued well for his shouldering his 
way up in life .  

He still had his wig and gown on ,  and he said ,  squaring 
himself at his late client to that degree that he squeezed the 
innocent Mr .  Lorry clean out of the group :  " I am glad to 
have brought you off with honour ,  Mr .  Darnay .  It was an 
infamous prosecution ,  grossly infamous  ;  but not the less 
likely to succeed on that account .  "  

 " You have laid me under an obligation to you for life — in 
two senses ,  "  said his late client ,  taking his hand .  

 "  I have done my best for you ,  Mr .  Darnay  ;  and my best 
is as good as another mans ,  I believe .  "  

It clearly being incumbent on some one to say ,  Much 
better ,   "  Mr .  Lorry said it  ;  perhaps not quite disinterestedly ,  
but with the interested object of squeezing himself back 
again .  

 "  You think so ?  "  said Mr .  Stryver .   "  Well  !  you have 
been present all day ,  and you ought to know .  You are a 
man of business ,  too .  "  

 "  And as such ,  "  quoth Mr .  Lorry ,  whom the counsel learned 
in the law had now shouldered back into the group ,  just as 
he had previously shouldered him out of it —  " as such I will 
appeal to Doctor Manette ,  to break up this conference and 
order us all to our homes .  Miss Lucie looks ill ,  Mr .  Darnay 
has had a terrible day ,  we are worn out .  "  

 " Speak for yourself ,  Mr .  Lorry ,  "  said Stryver  ;   " I have a 
nights work to do yet .  Speak for yourself .  "  

 " I speak for myself ,  "  answered Mr .  Lorry ,   " and for Mr .  

Darnay ,  and for Miss Lucie ,  and Miss Lucie ,  do you not 

think I may speak for us all ?  "  He asked her the question 
pointedly ,  and with a glance at her father .  

His face had become frozen ,  as it were ,  in a very curious 
look at Darnay : an intent look ,  deepening into a frown of 
dislike and distrust ,  not even unmixed with fear .  With this 
strange expression on him his thoughts had wandered away .  

 " My father ,  "  said Lucie ,  softly laying her hand on his .  

He slowly shook the shadow off ,  and turned to her .  

 "  Shall we go home ,  my father ?  "  

With a long breath ,  he answered  "  Yes .  "  

The friends of the acquitted prisoner had dispersed ,  under 



IOO A TALE OF TWO CITIES 

the impression — which he himself had originated — that he 
would not be released that night .  The lights were nearly 
all extinguished in the passages ,  the iron gates were being 
closed with a jar and a rattle ,  and the dismal place was 
deserted until to - morrow mornings interest of gallows ,  pillory ,  
whipping - post ,  and branding - iron ,  should re - people it .  Walk -  
ing between her father and Mr .  Darnay ,  Lucie Manette passed 
into the open air .  A hackney - coach was called ,  and the 
father and daughter departed in it .  

Mr .  Stryver had left them in the passages ,  to shoulder his 
way back to the robing - room .  Another person ,  who had not 
joined the group ,  or interchanged a word with any one of 
them ,  but who had been leaning against the wall where its 
shadow was darkest ,  had silently strolled out after the rest ,  
and had looked on until the coach drove away .  He now 
stepped up to where Mr .  Lorry and Mr .  Darnay stood upon 
the pavement .  

 "  So ,  Mr .  Lorry  !  Men of business may speak to Mr .  
Darnay now ?  "  

Nobody had made any acknowledgment of Mr .  Cartons 
part in the days proceedings  ;  nobody had known of it .  He 
was unrobed ,  and was none the better for it in appearance .  

 "  If you knew what a conflict goes on in the business mind ,  
when the business mind is divided between good - natured 
impulse and business appearances ,  you would be amused ,  
Mr .  Darnay .  "  

Mr .  Lorry reddened ,  and said ,  warmly ,   "  You have men -  
tioned that before ,  sir .  We men of business ,  who serve 
a House ,  are not our own masters .  We have to think of the 
House more than ourselves .  "  

■  / know ,  I know ,  "  rejoined Mr .  Carton ,  carelessly .   " Dont 
be nettled ,  Mr .  Lorry .  You are as good as another ,  I have 
no doubt : better ,  I dare say .  "  

 "  And indeed ,  sir ,  "  pursued Mr .  Lorry ,  not minding him ,  
• I really dont know what you have to do with the matter .  
If youll excuse me ,  as very much your elder ,  for saying so ,  
I really dont know that it is your business .  "  

 " Business !  Bless you ,   /  have no business ,  "  said Mr .  
Carton .  

 "  It is a pity you have not ,  sir .  "  
 "  I think so ,  too .  "  

 "  If you had ,  "  pursued Mr .  Lorry ,   "  perhaps you would 
attend to it .  "  



A MAN WITHOUT BUSINESS IOI 

 "  Lord love you ,  no  !  — I shouldnt ,  "  said Mr .  Carton .  

 " Well ,  sir !  "  cried Mr .  Lorry ,  thoroughly heated by his 
indifference ,   "  business is a very good thing ,  and a very 
respectable thing .  And ,  sir ,  if business imposes its restraints 
and its silences and impediments ,  Mr .  Darnay as a young 
gentleman of generosity knows how to make allowance for 
that circumstance .  Mr .  Darnay ,  good - night ,  God bless you ,  
sir  !  I hope you have been this clay preserved for a pros -  
perous and happy life .  — Chair there  !   "  

Perhaps a little angry with himself ,  as well as with the 
barrister ,  Mr .  Lorry bustled into the chair ,  and was carried 
off to Tellsons .  Carton ,  who smelt of port wine ,  and did 
not appear to be quite sober ,  laughed then ,  and turned to 
Darnay : 

 "  This is a strange chance that throws you and me together .  
This must be a strange night to you ,  standing alone here 
with your counterpart on these street stones ?  "  

 "  I hardly seem yet ,  "  returned Charles Darnay ,   "  to belong 
to this world again .  "  

 " I dont wonder at it ;  its not so long since you were 
pretty far advanced on your way to another .  You speak 
faintly .  "  

 "  I begin to think I am faint .  "  

Then why the devil dont you dine? I dined ,  myself ,  
while those numskulls were deliberating which world you 
should belong to — this ,  or some other .  Let me show you 
the nearest tavern to dine well at .  "  

Drawing his arm through his own ,  he took him down 
Ludgate - hill to Fleet - street ,  and so ,  up a covered way ,  into 
a tavern .  Here ,  they were shown into a little room ,  where 
Charles Darnay was soon recruiting his strength with a 
good plain dinner and good wine : while Carton sat opposite 
to him at the same table ,  with his separate bottle of port 
before him ,  and his fully half - insolent manner upon him .  

 "  Do you feel ,  yet ,  that you belong to this terrestrial 
scheme again ,  Mr .  Darnay ?  "  

 "  I am frightfully confused regarding time and place  ;  but 
I am so far mended as to feel that .  "  

 "  It must be an immense satisfaction  !   "  

He said it bitterly ,  and filled up his glass again: which 
was a large one .  

 "  As to me .  the greatest desire I have ,  is to forget that 
1 belong to it .  It has no good in it for me— except wine 



102 A TALE OF TWO CITIES 

like this — nor I for it .  So Ave are not much alike in that 
particular .  Indeed ,  I begin to think we are not much alike 
in any particular ,  you and I .  "  

Confused by the emotion of the clay ,  and feeling his being 
there with this Double of coarse deportment ,  to be like a 
dream ,  Charles Darnay was at a loss how to answer  ;  finally ,  
answered not at all .  

 "  Now your dinner is done ,  "  Carton presently said ,   "  why 
dont you call a health ,  Mr .  Darnay  ;  why dont you give 
your toast ?  "  

 "  What health ? What toast ?  "  

 "  Why ,  its on the tip of your tongue .  It ought to be ,  it 
must be ,  Ill swear its there .  "  

 "  Miss Manette ,  then  !   "  

 "  Miss Manette ,  then  !   "  

Looking his companion full in the face while he drank the 
toast ,  Carton flung his glass over his shoulder against the 
wall ,  where it shivered to pieces  ;  then ,  rang the bell ,  and 
ordered in another .  

 "  Thats a fair young lady to hand to a coach in the dark ,  
Mr .  Darnay  !   "  he said ,  filling his new goblet .  

A slight frown and a laconic  "  Yes ,  "  were the answer .  

 " Thats a fair young lady to be pitied by and wept for 
by  !  How does it feel ? Is it worth being tried for ones 
life ,  to be the object of such sympathy and compassion ,  Mr .  
Darnay ?  "  

Again Darnay answered not a word .  

 " She was mightily pleased to have your message ,  when 
I gave it her .  Not that she showed she was pleased ,  but I 
suppose she was .  "  

The allusion served as a timely reminder to Darnay that 
this disagreeable companion had ,  of his own free will ,  assisted 
him in the strait of the day .  He turned the dialogue to 
that point ,  and thanked him for it .  

 "  I neither want any thanks ,  nor merit any ,  "  was the care -  
less rejoinder .   "  It was nothing to do ,  in the first place  ;  
and I dont know why I did it ,  in the second .  Mr .  Darnay ,  
let me ask you a question .  "  

 "  Willingly ,  and a small return for your good offices .  "  

 "  Do you think I particularly like you ?  "  

 " Really ,  Mr .  Carton ,  "  returned the other ,  oddly discon -  
certed ,   " I have not asked myself the question .  "  

 "  But ask yourself the question now .  "  



cartons strange conduct 103 

 "  You have acted as if you do  ;  but I dont think you do .  "  

 / dont think I do ,  "  said Carton .   " I begin to have a 
very good opinion of your understanding .  "  

 " Nevertheless ,  "  pursued Darnay ,  rising to ring the bell ,  
 "  there is nothing in that ,  I hope ,  to prevent my calling the 
reckoning ,  and our parting without ill - blood on either side .  "  

Carton rejoining ,   " Nothing in life !  "  Darnay rang .  Do 
you call the whole reckoning ?  "  said Carton .  On his answer -  
ing in the affirmative ,   "  Then bring me another pint of this 
same wine ,  drawer ,  and come and wake me at ten .  "  

The bill being paid ,  Charles Darnay rose and wished him 
good - night .  Without returning the wish ,  Carton rose too ,  
with something of a threat of defiance in his manner ,  and 
said ,   " A last word ,  Mr .  Darnay: you think I am drunk? "  

I think you have been drinking ,  Mr .  Carton .  "  

 " Think? You know I have been drinking .  "  

 "  Since I must say so ,  I know it .  "  

 "  Then you shall likewise know why .  I am a disappointed 
drudge ,  sir .  I care for no man on earth ,  and no man on 
earth cares for me .  "  

 "  Much to be regretted .  You might have used your 
talents better .  "  

 " May be so ,  Mr .  Darnay ;  may be not .  Dont let your 
sober face elate you ,  however  ;  you dont know what it may 
come to .  Good - night  !   "  

When he was left alone ,  this strange being took up a 
candle ,  went to a glass that hung against the wall ,  and sur -  
veyed himself minutely in it .  

 "  Do you particularly like the man ?  "  he muttered ,  at his 
own image  ;   " why should you particularly like a man who 
resembles you ? There is nothing in you to like  ;  you know 
that .  Ah ,  confound you  !  What a change you have made 
in yourself  !  A good reason for taking to a man ,  that he 
shows you what you have fallen away from ,  and what you 
might have been  !  Change places with him ,  and would you 
have been looked at by those blue eyes as he was ,  and com -  
miserated by that agitated face as he was? Come on ,  and 
have it out in plain words  !  You hate the fellow .  "  

He resorted to his pint of wine for consolation ,  drank it 
all in a few minutes ,  and fell asleep on his arms ,  with his 
hair straggling over the table ,  and a long winding - sheet in 
the candle dripping down upon him .  



CHAPTER V 



THE JACKAL 



Those were drinking days ,  and most men drank hard .  So 
very great is the improvement Time has brought about in 
such habits ,  that a moderate statement of the quantity of 
wine and punch which one man would swallow in the course 
of a night ,  without any detriment to his reputation as a 
perfect gentleman ,  would seem ,  in these days ,  a ridiculous 
exaggeration .  The learned profession of the law was cer -  
tainly not behind any other learned profession in its Bac -  
chanalian propensities  ;  neither was Mr .  Stryver ,  already fast 
shouldering his way to a large and lucrative practice ,  behind 
his compeers in this particular ,  any more than in the drier 
parts of the legal race .  

A favourite at the Old Bailey ,  and eke at the Sessions ,  
Mr .  Stryver had begun cautiously to hew away the lower 
staves of the ladder on which he mounted .  Sessions and 
Old Bailey had now to summon their favourite ,  specially ,  to 
their longing arms  ;  and shouldering itself towards the visage 
of the Lord Chief Justice in the Court of Kings Bench ,  the 
florid countenance of Mr .  Stryver might be daily seen ,  burst -  
ing out of the bed of wigs ,  like a great sunflower pushing 
its way at the sun from among a rank gardenfull of flaring 
companions .  

It had once been noted at the Bar ,  that while Mr .  Stryver 
was a glib man ,  and an unscrupulous ,  and a ready ,  and a 
bold ,  he had not that faculty of extracting the essence from 
a heap of statements ,  which is among the most striking and 
necessary of the advocates accomplishments .  But a remark -  
able improvement came upon him as to this .  The more 
business he got ,  the greater his power seemed to grow of 
getting at its pith and marrow  ;  and however late at night 
he sat carousing with Sydney Carton ,  he always had his 
points at his fingers ends in the morning .  

Sydney Carton ,  idlest and must unpromising of men ,  was 



MR .  STRYVER AND SYDNEY CARTON 105 

Stryvers great ally .  What the two drank together ,  between 
Hilary Term and Michaelmas ,  might have floated a kings 
ship .  Stryver never had a case in hand ,  anywhere ,  but 
Carton was there ,  with his hands in his pockets ,  staring at 
the ceiling of the court  ;  they went the same Circuit ,  and 
even there they prolonged their usual orgies late into the 
night ,  and Carton was rumoured to be seen at broad day ,  
going home stealthily and unsteadily to his lodgings ,  like 
a dissipated cat .  At last ,  it began to get about ,  among such 
as were interested in the matter ,  that although Sydney 
Carton would never be a lion ,  he was an amazingly good 
jackal ,  and that he rendered suit and service to Stryver in 
that humble capacity .  

 " Ten oclock ,  sir ,  "  said the man at the tavern ,  whom he 
had charged to wake him —  " ten oclock ,  sir .  "  

 " Whats the matter? "  

 " Ten oclock ,  sir .  "  

 " What do you mean? Ten oclock at night? "  

 "  Yes ,  sir .  Your honour told me to call you .  "  

 " Oh !  I remember .  Very well ,  very well .  "  

After a few dull efforts to get to sleep again ,  which the 
man dexterously combated by stirring the fire continuously 
for five minutes ,  he got up ,  tossed his hat on ,  and walked 
out .  He turned into the Temple ,  and ,  having revived him -  
self by twice pacing the pavements of Kings Bench - walk 
and Paper - buildings ,  turned into the Stryver chambers .  

The Stryver clerk ,  who never assisted at these conferences ,  
had gone home ,  and the Stryver principal opened the door .  
He had his slippers on ,  and a loose bed - gown ,  and his throat 
was bare for his greater ease .  He had that rather wild ,  
strained ,  seared marking about the eyes ,  which may be 
observed in all free livers of his class ,  from the portrait of 
Jeffries downward ,  and which can be traced ,  under various 
disguises of Art ,  through the portraits of every Drinking Age .  

 "  You are a little late ,  Memory ,  "  said Stryver .  

 "  About the usual time  ;  it may be a quarter of an hour 
later .  "  

They went into a dingy room lined with books and littered 
with papers ,  where there was a blazing fire .  A kettle steamed 
upon the hob ,  and in the midst of the wreck of papers a table 
shone ,  with plenty of wine upon it ,  and brandy ,  and rum ,  
and sugar ,  and lemons .  

 " You have had your bottle ,  I perceive ,  Sydney .  "  
1 .  d 3 



106 A TALE OF TWO CITIES 

 " Two to - night .  I think .  I have been dining with the 
days client  ;  or seeing him dine— its all one  !   "  

• That was a rare point .  Sydney ,  that you brought to bear 
upon the identification .  How did you come by it ?  " When 
did it strike you ?  "  

*  ;  I thought he was rather a handsome fellow ,  and I thought 
I should have been much the same sort of fellow ,  if I had 
had any luck .  "  

Mr .  Stryver laughed till he shook his precocious paunch .  

•• You and your luck ,  Sydney  !  Get to work ,  get to work .  "  

Sullenly enough ,  the jackal loosened his dress ,  went into 
an adjoining room ,  and came back with a large jug of cold 
water ,  a basin ,  and a towel or two .  Steeping the towels in 
the water ,  and partially wringing them out .  he folded them 
on his head in a manner hideous to behold ,  sat down at the 
table ,  and said .   "  Now I am ready  !   "  

••Not much boiling down to be done to - night .  Memory ,  "  
said Mr .  Stryver ,  gaily ,  as he looked among his papers .  

 " • How much ?  "  

 - i Only two sets of them .  "  

 "  Give me the worst first .  "  

 "  There they are ,  Sydney .  Fire away  !   "  

The lion then composed himself on his back on a sofa on 
one side of the drinking - table ,  while the jackal sat at his own 
paper - bestrewn table proper ,  on the other side of it ,  with 
the bottles and glasses ready to his hand .  Both resorted to 
the drinking - table without stint ,  but each in a different way  ;  
the lion for the most part reclining with his hands in his 
waistband ,  looking at the fire ,  or occasionally flirting with 
some lighter document  ;  the jackal ,  with knitted brows and 
intent face ,  so deep in his task ,  that his eyes did not even 
follow the hand he stretched out for his glass — which often 
groped about ,  for a minute or more ,  before it found the 
glass for his lips .  Two or three times ,  the matter in hand 
became so knotty ,  that the jackal found it imperative on 
him to get up ,  and steep his towels anew .  From these 
pilgrimages to the jug and basin ,  he returned with such 
eccentricities of damp head - gear as no words can describe  ;  
which were made the more ludicrous by his anxious 
gravity .  

At length the jackal had got together a compact repast 
for the lion ,  and proceeded to offer it to him .  The lion took 
it with care and caution ,  made his selections from it ,  and his 



OVER A BUMPER OF PUNCH 107 

remarks upon it ,  and the jackal assisted both .  When the 
repast was fully discussed ,  the lion put his hands in his 
waistband again ,  and lay down to meditate .  The jackal then 
invigorated himself with a bumper for his throttle ,  and a 
fresh application to his head ,  and applied himself to the 
collection of a second meal  ;  this was administered to the 
lion in the same manner ,  and was not disposed of until the 
clocks struck three in the morning .  

• And now we have done ,  Sydney ,  fill a bumper of punch ,  "  
said Mr .  Stryver .  

The jackal removed the towels from his head ,  which had 
been steaming again ,  shook himself ,  yawned ,  shivered ,  and 
complied .  

•• You were very sound ,  Sydney ,  in the matter of those 
crown witnesses to - day .  Every question told .  "  

 " I always am sound  ;  am I not? "  

 "  I dont gainsay it .  What has roughened your temper ? 
Put some punch to it and smooth it again .  "  

With a deprecatory grunt ,  the jackal again complied .  

• The old Sydney Carton of old Shrewsbury School ,  "  said 
Stryver ,  nodding his head over him as he reviewed him in 
the present and the past ,   " the old seesaw Sydney .  Up 
one minute and down the next  ;  now in spirits and now in 
despondency  !   "  

 " Ah !  "  returned the other ,  sighing:  " yes !  The same 
Sydney ,  with the same luck .  Even then ,  I did exercises for 
oilier boys ,  and seldom did my own .  "  

 " And why not? "  

 "  God knows .  It was my way ,  I suppose .  "  

He sat ,  with his hands in his pockets and his legs stretched 
out before him ,  looking at the fire .  

 " Carton ,  "  said his friend ,  squaring himself at him with 
a bullying air ,  as if the fire - grate had been the furnace in 
which sustained endeavour was forged ,  and the one delicate 
thing to be done for the old Sydney Carton of old Shrews -  
bury School was to shoulder him into it ,   " your way is ,  and 
always was ,  a lame way .  You summon no energy and 
purpose .  Look at me .  "  

 "  Oh ,  botheration  !   "  returned Sydney ,  with a lighter and 
more good - humoured laugh ,   "  dont you be moral  !   "  

 "  How have I done what I have done ?  "  said Stryver  ;  
 " how do I do what I do? "  

 "  Partly through paying me to help you ,  I suppose .  But 



108 A TALE OF TWO CITIES 

its not worth your while to apostrophise me .  or the air ,  
about it  ;  what you want to do ,  you do .  You were always 
in the front rank ,  and I was always behind .  "  

I had to get into the front rank  ;  I was not born there ,  
was I ?  "  

 " I was not present at the ceremony ;  but my opinion is 
you were ,  "  said Carton .  At this ,  he laughed again ,  and 
they both laughed .  

 "  Before Shrewsbury ,  and at Shrewsbury ,  and ever since 
Shrewsbury ,  "  pursued Carton ,   " you have fallen into your 
rank ,  and I have fallen into mine .  Even when we were 
fellow - students in the Student - Quarter of Paris ,  picking up 
French ,  and French law ,  and other French crumbs that we 
didnt get much good of ,  you were always somewhere ,  and 
I was always — nowhere .  "  

 "  And whose fault was that ?  "  

 "  Upon my soul ,  I am not sure that it was not yours .  
You were always driving and riving and shouldering and 
pressing ,  to that restless degree that I had no chance for my 
life but in rust and repose .  Its a gloomy thing ,  however ,  
to talk about ones own past ,  with the day breaking .  Turn 
me in some other direction before I go .  "  

 " Well then !  Pledge me to the pretty witness ,  "  said 
Stryver ,  holding up his glass .   " Are you turned in a 
pleasant direction ?  "  

Apparently not ,  for he became gloomy again .  

 "  Pretty witness ,  "  he muttered ,  looking down into his glass .  
 "  I have had enough of witnesses to - day and to - night  ;  whos 
your pretty witness ?  "  

 "  The picturesque doctors daughter ,  Miss Manette .  "  

 "  She pretty ?  "  

 "  Is she not ?  "  

 "  No .  "  

 "  Why ,  man alive ,  she was the admiration of the whole 
Court  !   "  

 " Rot the admiration of the whole Court !  Who made 
the Old Bailey a judge of beauty ? She was a golden - haired 
doll  !   "  

 " Do you know ,  Sydney ,  "  said Mr .  Stryver ,  looking at 
him with sharp eyes ,  and slowly drawing a hand across his 
ilorid face:  " do you know ,  I rather thought ,  at the time ,  
that you sympathised with the golden - haired doll ,  and were 
quick to see what happened to the golden - haired doll? "  



A WASTED LIFE 109 

 "  Quick to see what happened  !  If a girl ,  doll or no doll ,  
swoons within a yard or two of a mans nose ,  he can see it 
without a perspective - glass .  I pledge you ,  but I deny the 
beauty .  And now Ill have no more drink  ;  Ill get to bed .  "  

When his host followed him out on the staircase with a 
candle ,  to light him down the stairs ,  the day was coldly 
looking in through its grimy windows .  When he got out of 
the house ,  the air was cold and sad ,  the dull sky overcast ,  
the river dark and dim ,  the whole scene like a lifeless desert .  
And wreaths of dust were spinning round and round before 
the morning blast ,  as if the desert - sand had risen far away ,  
and the first spray of it in its advance had begun to over -  
whelm the city .  

Waste forces within him ,  and a desert all around ,  this 
man stood still on his way across a silent terrace ,  and saw 
for a moment ,  lying in the wilderness before him ,  a mirage 
of honourable ambition ,  self - denial ,  and perseverance .  In 
the fair city of this vision ,  there were airy galleries from 
which the loves and graces looked upon him ,  gardens in 
which the fruits of life hung ripening ,  waters of Hope that 
sparkled in his sight .  A moment ,  and it was gone .  Climb -  
ing to a high chamber in a well of houses ,  he threw himself 
down in his clothes on a neglected bed ,  and its pillow was 
wet with wasted tears .  

Sadly ,  sadly ,  the sun rose  ;  it rose upon no sadder sight 
than the man of good abilities and good emotions ,  incapable 
of their directed exercise ,  incapable of his own help and his 
own happiness ,  sensible of the blight on him ,  and resigning 
himself to let it eat him away .  



CHAPTER VI 

HUNDREDS OF TEOPLE 

The quiet lodgings of Doctor Manette were in a quiet street -  
corner not far from Soho - square .  On the afternoon of a 
certain fine Sunday when the waves of four months had 
rolled over the trial for treason ,  and carried it ,  as to the 
public interest and memory ,  far out to sea ,  Mr .  Jarvis Lorry 
walked along the sunny streets from Clerkenwell where he 
lived ,  on his way to dine with the Doctor .  After several 
relapses into business - absorption ,  Mr .  Lorry had become the 
Doctors friend ,  and the quiet street - corner was the sunny 
part of his life .  

On this certain fine Sunday ,  Mr .  Lorry walked towards 
Soho ,  early in the afternoon ,  for three reasons of habit .  
Firstly ,  because ,  on fine Sundays ,  he often walked out ,  
before dinner ,  with the Doctor and Lucie  ;  secondly ,  because ,  
on unfavourable Sundays ,  he was accustomed to be with 
them as the family friend ,  talking ,  reading ,  looking out of 
window ,  and generally getting through the day  ;  thirdly ,  
because he happened to have his own little shrewd doubts to 
solve ,  and knew how the ways of the Doctors household 
pointed to that time as a likely time for solving them .  

A quainter corner than the corner where the Doctor lived ,  
was not to be found in London .  There was no way through 
it ,  and the front windows of the Doctors lodgings commanded 
a pleasant little vista of street that had a congenial air of 
retirement on it .  There were few buildings then ,  north of 
the Oxford - road ,  and forest - trees flourished ,  and wild flowers 
grew ,  and the hawthorn blossomed ,  in the now vanished fields .  
As a consequence ,  country airs circulated in Soho with 
vigorous freedom ,  instead of languishing into the parish like 
stray paupers without a settlement ;  and there was many 
a good south wall ,  not far off ,  on which the peaches ripened 
in their season .  

The summer light struck into the coiner brilliantly in the 



DOCTOR MANETTE S LODGINGS ITI 

earlier part of the day  ;  but ,  when the streets grew hot ,  the 
corner was in shadow ,  though not in shadow so remote but 
that you could see beyond it into a glare of brightness .  It 
was a cool spot ,  staid but cheerful ,  a wonderful place for 
echoes ,  and a very harbour from the raging streets .  

There ought to have been a tranquil bark in such an 
anchorage ,  and there was .  The Doctor occupied two floors 
of a large still house ,  where several callings purported to be 
pursued by day ,  but whereof little was audible any day ,  and 
which was shunned by all of them at night .  In a building 
at the back ,  attainable by a court - yard where a plane - tree 
rustled its green leaves ,  church - organs claimed to be made ,  
and silver to be chased ,  and likewise gold to be beaten by 
some mysterious giant who had a golden arm starting out 
of the wall of the front hall — as if he had beaten himself 
precious ,  and menaced a similar conversion of all visitors .  
Very little of these trades ,  or of a lonely lodger rumoured to 
live up - stairs ,  or of a dim coach - trimming maker asserted to 
have a counting - house below ,  was ever heard or seen .  Occa -  
sionally ,  a stray workman putting his coat on ,  traversed the 
hall ,  or a stranger peered about there ,  or a distant clink was 
heard across the court - yard ,  or a thumb from the golden 
giant .  These ,  however ,  were only the exceptions required 
to prove the rule that the sparrows in the plane - tree behind 
the house ,  and the echoes in the corner before it ,  had their 
own way from Sunday morning unto Saturday night .  

Doctor Manette received such patients here as his old 
reputation ,  and its revival in the floating whispers of his 
story ,  brought him .  His scientific knowledge ,  and his 
vigilance and skill in conducting ingenious experiments ,  
brought him otherwise into moderate request ,  and he earned 
as much as he wanted .  

These things were within Mr .  Jarvis Lorrys knowledge ,  
thoughts ,  and notice ,  when he rang the door - bell of the 
tranquil house in the corner ,  on the fine Sunday afternoon .  

 "  Doctor Manette at home ?  "  

Expected home .  

 "  Miss Lucie at home ?  "  

Expected home .  

 "  Miss Pross at home ?  "  

Possibly at home ,  but of a certainty impossible for hand -  
maid to anticipate intentions of Miss Pross ,  as to admission 
or denial of the fact .  



112 A TALE OF TWO CITIES 

 " As I am at home myself ,  "  said Mr .  Lorry .   " Ill go 
up - stairs .  "  

Although the Doctors daughter had known nothing of the 
country of her birth ,  she appeared to have innately derived 
from it that ability to make much of little means ,  which is 
one of its most useful and most agreeable characteristics .  
Simple as the furniture was ,  it was set off by so many little 
adornments ,  of no value but for their taste and fancy ,  that 
its effect was delightful .  The disposition of everything in 
the rooms ,  from the largest object to the least : the arrange -  
ment of colours ,  the elegant variety and contrast obtained by 
thrift in trifles ,  by delicate hands ,  clear eyes ,  and good sense  ;  
were at once so pleasant in themselves ,  and so expressive 
of their originator ,  that ,  as Mr .  Lorry stood looking about 
him ,  the very chairs and tables seemed to ask him ,  with 
something of that peculiar expression which he knew so well 
by this time ,  whether he approved ? 

There were three rooms on a floor ,  and ,  the doors by which 
they communicated being put open that the air might pass 
freely through them all ,  Mr .  Lorry ,  smilingly observant of 
that fanciful resemblance which he detected all around him ,  
walked from one to another .  The first was the best room ,  
and in it were Lucies birds ,  and flowers ,  and books ,  and 
desk ,  and work - table ,  and box of water - colours  ;  the second 
was the Doctors consulting - room ,  used also as the dining -  
room  ;  the third ,  changingly speckled by the rustle of the 
plane - tree in the yard ,  was the Doctors bedroom ,  and there ,  
in a corner ,  stood the disused shoemakers bench and tray 
of tools ,  much as it had stood on the fifth floor of the dismal 
house by the wine - shop ,  in the suburb of Saint Antoine in 
Paris .  

 " I wonder ,   "  said Mr .  Lorry ,  pausing in his looking about ,  
 "  that he keeps that reminder of his sufferings about him  !   "  
 " And why wonder at that?  "  was the abrupt inquiry that 
made him start .  

It proceeded from Miss Pross .  the wild red woman ,  strong 
of hand ,  whose acquaintance he had first made at the Royal 
George Hotel at Dover ,  and had since improved .  

 "  I should have thought  "  Mr .  Lorry began .  

 "  Pooh  !  Youd have thought  !   "  said Miss Pross  ;  and 
Mr .  Lorry left off .  

 "  How do you do ?  "  inquired that lady then — sharply ,  
and yet as if to express that she bore him no malice .  



MISS PROSS AND MR .  LORRY II3 

 " I am pretty well .  I thank you .  "  answered Mr .  Lorry ,  
with meekness  ;   "  how are you ?  "  

 -  Nothing to boast of ,  "  said Miss Pross .  
 "  Indeed ?  "  

 "  Ah  !  indeed  !   "  said Miss Pross .   "  I am very much put 
out about my Ladybird .  "  

 -  Indeed ?  "  

 " For gracious sake say something else besides indeed ,  
or youll fidget me to death ,  "  said Miss Pross : whose 
character  ( dissociated from stature )  was shortness .  

 "  Keally ,  then ?  "  said Mr .  Lorry ,  as an amendment .  

 " Keally ,  is bad enough ,  "  returned Miss Pross ,   " but 
better .  Yes ,  I am very much put out .  "  

 "  May I ask the cause ?  "  

 "  I dont want dozens of people who are not at all worthy 
of Ladybird ,  to come here looking after her ,  "  said Miss 
Pross .  

 "  Do dozens come for that purpose ?  "  

 "  Hundreds ,  "  said Miss Pross .  

It was characteristic of this lady  ( as of some other people 
before her time and since )  that whenever her original pro -  
position was questioned ,  she exaggerated it .  

 "  Dear me  !   "  said Mr .  Lorry ,  as the safest remark he 
could think of .  

 "  I have lived with the darling— or the darling has lived 
with me ,  and paid me for it  ;  which she certainly should 
never have done ,  you may take your affidavit ,  if I could 
have afforded to keep either myself or her for nothing — 
since she was ten years old .  And its really very hard ,  "  
said Miss Pross .  

Not seeing with precision what was very hard ,  Mr .  Lorry 
shook his head  ;  using that important part of himself as 
a sort of fairy cloak that would fit anything .  

 " All sorts of people who are not in the least degree 
worthy of the pet ,  are always turning up ,  "  said Miss Pross .  
 "  When you began it  "  

 "  I began it ,  Miss Pross ?  "  

 "  Didnt you ? Who brought her father to life ?  "  

 "  Oh  !  If that was beginning it  "  said Mr .  Lorry .  

 "  It wasnt ending it ,  I suppose ? I say ,  when you began 
it ,  it was hard enough  ;  not that I have any fault to find 
with Doctor Manette ,  except that he is not worthy of such 
a daughter ,  which is no imputation on him ,  for it was not 



1 14 A TALE OF TWO CITIES 

to be expected that anybody should be ,  under any circum -  
stances .  But it really is doubly and trebly hard to have 
crowds and multitudes of people turning up after him  ( I 
could have forgiven him )  ,  to take Ladybirds affections away 
from me .  "  

Mr .  Lorry knew Miss Pross to be very jealous ,  but he 
also knew her by this time to be ,  beneath the surface of 
her eccentricity ,  one of those unselfish creatures — found 
only among women — who will ,  for pui - e love and admira -  
tion ,  bind themselves willing slaves ,  to youth when they 
have lost it ,  to beauty that they never had ,  to accomplishments 
that they were never fortunate enough to gain ,  to bright 
hopes that never shone upon their own sombre lives .  He 
knew enough of the world to know that there is nothing 
in it better than the faithful service of the heart  ;  so rendered 
and so free from any mercenary taint ,  he had such an 
exalted respect for it ,  that in the retributive arrangements 
made by his own mind — we all make such arrangements ,  
more or less — he stationed Miss Pross much nearer to the 
lower Angels than many ladies immeasurably better got up 
both by Nature and Art ,  who had balances at Tellsons .  

 " There never was ,  nor will be ,  but one man worthy of 
Ladybird ,  "  said Miss Pross ;   " and that was my brother 
Solomon ,  if he hadnt made a mistake in life .  "  

Here again : Mr .  Lorrys inquiries into Miss Prosss per -  
sonal history had established the fact that her brother 
Solomon was a heartless scoundrel who had stripped her of 
everything she possessed ,  as a stake to speculate with ,  and 
had abandoned her in her poverty for evermore ,  with no 
touch of compunction .  Miss Prosss fidelity of belief in 
Solomon  ( deducting a mere trifle for this slight mistake )  
was quite a serious matter with Mr .  Lorry ,  and had its 
weight in his good opinion of her .  

 " As we happen to be alone for the moment ,  and are both 
people of business ,  "  he said ,  when they had got back to the 
drawing - room and had sat down there in friendly relations ,  
 " let me ask you— does the Doctoi \  in talking with Lucie ,  
never refer to the shoemaking time ,  yet ?  "  

 " Never .  "  

• And yet keeps that bench and those tools beside him? "  

 " Ah !  "  returned Miss Pross .  shaking her head .   " But 
I dont say he dont refer to it within himself .  "  

• Do you believe that he thinks of it much ?  "  



MISS PROSS S OPINION II5 

 "  I do ,  "  said Miss Pross .  

:i Do you imagine  "  Mr .  Lorry had begun ,  when Miss 

Pross took him up short with : 

 "  Never imagine anything .  Have no imagination at all .  

 "  I stand corrected  ;  do you suppose — you go so far as to 
suppose ,  sometimes ?  "  

 "  Now and then ,  "  said Miss Pross .  

 "  Do you suppose ,  "  Mr .  Lorry went on ,  with a laughing 
twinkle in his bright eye ,  as it looked kindly at her ,   "  that 
Doctor Manette has any theory of his own ,  preserved through 
all those years ,  relative to the cause of his being so oppressed  ;  
perhaps ,  even to the name of his oppressor ?  "  

U I dont suppose anything about it but what Ladybird 
tells me .  "  

 "  And that is ?  "  

 "  That she thinks he has .  "  

 "  Now dont be angiy at my asking all these questions  ;  
because I am a mere dull man of business ,  and you are a 
woman of business .  "  

 "  Dull ?  "  Miss Pross inquired ,  with placidity .  

Eather wishing his modest adjective away ,  Mr .  Lorry 
replied ,   "  No ,  no ,  no .  Surely not .  To return to business :— 
Is it not remarkable that Doctor Manette ,  unquestionably 
innocent of any crime as we are all well assured he is ,  should 
never touch upon that question ? I will not say with me ,  
though he had business relations with me many years ago ,  
and we are now intimate  ;  I wdl say with the fair daughter 
to whom he is so devotedly attached ,  and who is so devotedty 
attached to him ? Believe me ,  Miss Pross ,  I dont approach 
the topic with you ,  out of curiosity ,  but out of zealous 
interest .  "  

 "  Well  !  To the best of my understanding ,  and bads the 
best ,  youll tell me ,  "  said Miss Pross ,  softened by the tone 
of the apology ,  he is afraid of the whole subject .  "  

•Afraid? "  

 "  Its plain enough ,  I should think ,  why he may be .  Its 
a dreadful remembrance .  Besides that ,  his loss of himself 
grew out of it .  Not knowing how he lost himself ,  or how 
he recovered himself ,  he may never feel certain of not losing 
himself again .  That alone wouldnt make the subject 
pleasant ,  I should think .  "  

It was a profounder remark than Mr .  Lorry had looked 
for .   " True ,  "  said he ,   " and fearful to reflect upon .  Yet .  



Il6 A TALE OF TWO CITIES 

a doubt lurks in my mind .  Miss Pross ,  whether it is good 
for Doctor Manette to have that suppression always shut 
up within him .  Indeed ,  it is this doubt and the uneasiness 
it sometimes causes me that has led me to our present 
confidence .  "  

 " Cant be helped ,  "  said Miss Pross ,  shaking her head .  
 "  Touch that string ,  and he instantly changes for tbe worse .  
Better leave it alone .  In short ,  must leave it alone ,  like 
or no like .  Sometimes ,  he gets up in the dead of the 
night ,  and will be heard ,  by us overhead there ,  walking 
up and down ,  walking up and down ,  in his room .  Lady -  
bird has learnt to know then that his mind is walking up 
and down ,  walking up and down ,  in his old prison .  She 
hurries to him ,  and they go on together ,  walking up and 
down ,  walking up and down ,  until he is composed .  But he 
never says a word of the true reason of his restlessness ,  to 
her ,  and she finds it best not to hint at it to him .  In silence 
they go walking up and down together ,  walking up and 
down together ,  till her love and company have brought him 
to himself .  "  

Notwithstanding Miss Prosss denial of her own imagina -  
tion ,  there was a perception of the pain of being monoton -  
ously haunted by one sad idea ,  in her repetition of the 
phrase ,  walking up and down ,  which testified to her possessing 
such a thing .  

The corner has been mentioned as a wonderful corner for 
echoes  ;  it had begun to echo so resoundingly to the tread 
of coming feet ,  that it seemed as though the very mention 
of that weary pacing to and fro had set it going .  

 "  Here they are  !   "  said Miss Pross ,  rising to break up 
the conference  ;   " and now we shall have hundreds of people 
pretty soon  !   "  

It was such a curious corner in its acoustical properties ,  
such a peculiar Ear of a place ,  that as Mr .  Lorry stood at 
the open window ,  looking for the father and daughter whose 
steps he heard ,  he fancied they would never approach .  Not 
only would the echoes die away ,  as though the steps had 
gone  ;  but ,  echoes of other steps that never came would be 
heard in their stead ,  and would die away for good when 
they seemed close at hand .  However ,  father and daughter 
did at last appear ,  and Miss Pross was ready at the street 
door to receive them .  

Miss Pross was a pleasant sight ,  albeit wild ,  and red ,  and 



PLEASANT TIMES 117 

grim ,  taking off her darlings bonnet when she came up -  
stairs ,  and touching it up with the ends of her handkerchief ,  
and blowing the dust off it ,  and folding her mantle ready 
for laying by ,  and smoothing her rich hair with as much 
pride as she could possibly have taken in her own hair if 
she had been the vainest and handsomest of women .  Her 
darling was a pleasant sight too ,  embracing her and thank -  
ing her ,  and protesting against her taking so much trouble 
for her — which last she only dared to do playfully ,  or Miss 
Pross ,  sorely hurt ,  would have retired to her own chamber 
and cried .  The Doctor was a pleasant sight too ,  looking on 
at them ,  and telling Miss Pross how she spoilt Lucie ,  in 
accents and with eyes that had as much spoiling in them as 
Miss Pross had ,  and would have had more if it were possible .  
Mr .  Lorry was a pleasant sight too ,  beaming at all this in 
his little wig ,  and thanking his bachelor stars for having 
lighted him in his declining years to a Home .  But ,  no 
Hundreds of people came to see the sights ,  and Mr .  Lorry 
looked in vain for the fulfilment of Miss Prosss prediction .  

Dinner - time ,  and still no Hundreds of people .  In the 
arrangements of the little household ,  Miss Pross took charge 
of the lower regions ,  and always acquitted herself marvel -  
lously .  Her dinners ,  of a very modest quality ,  were so well 
cooked and so well served ,  and so neat in their contrivances ,  
half English and half French ,  that nothing could be better .  
Miss Prosss friendship being of the thoroughly practical 
kind ,  she had ravaged Soho and the adjacent provinces ,  
in search of impoverished French ,  who ,  tempted by shillings 
and half - crowns ,  would impart culinary mysteries to her .  
From these decayed sons and daughters of Gaul ,  she had 
acquired such wonderful arts ,  that the woman and girl who 
formed the staff of domestics regarded her as quite a Sorceress ,  
or Cinderellas Godmother : who would send out for a fowl ,  
a rabbit ,  a vegetable or two from the garden ,  and change 
them into anything she pleased .  

On Sundays ,  Miss Pross dined at the Doctors table ,  but 
on other days persisted in taking her meals at unknown 
periods ,  either in the lower regions ,  or in her own room on 
the second floor — a blue chamber ,  to which no one but her 
Ladybird ever gained admittance .  On this occasion ,  Miss 
Pross ,  responding to Ladybirds pleasant face and pleasant 
efforts to please her ,  unbent exceedingly  ;  so the dinner was 
very pleasant ,  too .  



Il8 A TALE OF TWO CITIES 

It was an oppressive clay ,  and ,  after dinner .  Lucie proposed 
that the wine should be carried out under the plane - tree ,  
and they should sit there in the air .  As everything turned 
upon her ,  and revolved about her .  they went out under 
the plane - tree ,  and she carried the wine down for the special 
benefit of Mr .  Lorry .  She had installed herself ,  some time 
before ,  as Mr .  Lorrys cup - bearer  ;  and while they sat under 
the plane - tree ,  talking ,  she kept his glass replenished .  
Mysterious backs and ends of houses peeped at them as 
they talked ,  and the plane - tree whispered to them in its own 
way above their heads .  

Still ,  the Hundreds of people did not present themselves .  
Mr .  Darnay presented himself while they were sitting under 
the plane - tree ,  but he was only One .  

Doctor Manette received him kindly ,  and so did Lucie .  
But ,  Miss Pross suddenly became afflicted with a twitching 
in the head and body ,  and retired into the house .  She was 
not unfrequently the victim of this disorder ,  and she called 
it ,  in familiar conversation ,   " a fit of the jerks .  "  

The Doctor was in his best condition ,  and looked specially 
young .  The resemblance between him and Lucie was veiy 
strong at such times ,  and as they sat side by side ,  she leaning 
on his shoulder ,  and he resting his arm on the back of her 
chair ,  it was very agreeable to trace the likeness .  

He had been talking all day ,  on many subjects ,  and with 
unusual vivacity .   "  Pray ,  Doctor Manette ,  "  said Mr .  Darnay ,  
as they sat under the plane - tree — and he said it in the 
natural pursuit of the topic in hand ,  which happened to be 
the old buildings of London —  -  " have you seen much of the 
Tower ?  "  

•Lucie and I have been there ;  but only casually .  We 
have seen enough of it ,  to know that it teems with interest  ;  
little more .  "  

 "  I have been there ,  as you remember ,  "  said Darnay ,  with 
a smile ,  though reddening a little angrily ,   " in another 
character ,  and not in a character that gives facilities for 
seeing much of it .  They told me a curious thing when I was 
there .  "  

 " What was that? "  Lucie asked .  

 "  In making some alterations ,  the workmen came upon an 
old dungeon ,  which had been ,  for many years ,  built up and 
forgotten .  Every stone of its inner wall was covered by 
inscriptions which had been carved by prisoners — dates ,  



A TOWER ANECDOTE 1 1 9 

names ,  complaints ,  and prayers .  Upon a corner stone in an 
angle of the wall ,  one prisoner ,  who seemed to have gone to 
execution ,  had cut as his last work ,  three letters .  They were 
done with some very poor instrument ,  and hurriedly ,  with an 
unsteady hand .  At first ,  they were read as D .  I .  C .   ;  but ,  on 
being more carefully examined ,  the last letter was found to 
be G .  There was no record or legend of any prisoner with 
those initials ,  and many fruitless guesses were made what the 
name could have been .  At length ,  it was suggested that the 
letters were not initials ,  but the complete word ,  Dig .  The 
floor was examined very carefully under the inscription ,  and ,  
in the earth beneath a stone ,  or tile ,  or some fragment of 
paving ,  were found the ashes of a paper ,  mingled with the 
ashes of a small leathern case or bag .  What the unknown 
prisoner had written will never be read ,  but he had written 
something ,  and hidden it away to keep it from the gaoler .  "  

 "  My father ,  "  exclaimed Lucie ,   "  you are ill  !   "  

He had suddenly started up ,  with his hand to his head .  
His manner and his look quite terrified them all .  

 "  No ,  my dear ,  not ill .  There are large drops of rain 
falling ,  and they made me start .  We had better go in .  "  

He recovered himself almost instantly .  Kain was really 
falling in large drops ,  and he showed the back of his hand 
with rain - drops on it .  But ,  he said not a single word in 
reference to the discovery that had been told of ,  and ,  as they 
went into the house ,  the business eye of Mr .  Lorry either 
detected ,  or fancied it detected ,  on his face ,  as it turned 
towards Charles Darnay ,  the same singular look that had 
been upon it when it turned towards him in the passages of 
the Court House .  

He recovered himself so quickly ,  however ,  that Mr .  Lorry 
had doubts of his business eye .  The arm of the golden giant 
in the hall was not more steady than he was ,  when he stopped 
under it to remark to them that he was not yet proof against 
slight surprises  ( if he ever would be )  ,  and that the rain had 
startled him .  

Tea - time ,  and Miss Pross making tea ,  with another fit of 
the jerks upon her ,  and yet no Hundreds of people .  Mr .  
Carton had lounged in ,  but he made only Two .  

The night was so very sultry ,  that although they sat with 
doors and windows open ,  they were overpowered by heat .  
When the tea - table was done with ,  they all moved to one of 
the windows ,  and looked out into the heavy twilight .  Lucie 



120 A TALE OF TWO CITIES 

sat by her father  ;  Darnay sat beside her  ;  Carton leaned 
against a window .  The curtains were long and white ,  and 
some of the thunder - gusts that whirled into the corner ,  caught 
them up to the ceiling ,  and waved them like spectral wings .  

 " The rain - drops are still falling ,  large ,  heavy ,  and few ,  "  
said Doctor Manette .   " It comes slowly .  "  

 " It comes surely ,  "  said Carton .  

They spoke low ,  as people watching and waiting mostly 
do  ;  as people in a dark room ,  watching and waiting for 
Lightning ,  always do .  

There was a great hurry in the streets ,  of people speeding 
away to get shelter before the storm broke  ;  the wonderful 
corner for echoes resounded with the echoes of footsteps 
coming and going ,  yet not a footstep was there .  

 "  A multitude of people ,  and yet a solitude  !   "  said Darnay ,  
when they had listened for a while .  

 "  Is it not impressive ,  Mr .  Darnay ?  "  asked Lucie .   "  Some -  
times ,  I have sat here of an evening ,  until I have fancied — 
but even the shade of a foolish fancy makes me shudder 
to - night ,  when all is so black and solemn  "  

 " Let us shudder too .  We may know what it is .  "  

 "  It will seem nothing to you .  Such whims are only im -  
pressive as we originate them ,  I think  ;  they are not to be 
communicated .  I have sometimes sat alone here of an 
evening ,  listening ,  until I have made the echoes out to be 
the echoes of all the footsteps that are coming by - and - by into 
our lives .  "  

 "  There is a great crowd coming one day into our lives ,  if 
that be so ,  "  Sydney Carton struck in ,  in his moody way .  

The footsteps were incessant ,  and the hurry of them became 
more and more rapid .  The corner echoed and re - echoed with 
the tread of feet  ;  some ,  as it seemed ,  under the windows  ;  
some ,  as it seemed ,  in the room  ;  some coming ,  some going ,  
some breaking off ,  some stopping altogether  ;  all in the 
distant streets ,  and not one within sight .  

 "  Are all these footsteps destined to come to all of us ,  Miss 
Manette ,  or are we to divide them among us *?  "  

 "  I dont know ,  Mr .  Darnay  ;  I told you it was a foolish 
fancy ,  but you asked for it .  When I have yielded myself to 
it ,  I have been alone ,  and then I have imagined them the 
footsteps of the people who are to come into my life ,  and 
my fathers .  "  

 "  I take them into mine  !   "  said Carton .   "  I ask no ques -  



A MEMORABLE STORM 121 

tions and make no stipulations .  There is a great crowd 

bearing down upon us ,  Miss Manette ,  and I see them 

by the Lightning .  "  He added the last words ,  after there 
had been a vivid flash which had shown him lounging in 
the window .  

 "  And I hear them  !   "  he added again ,  after a peal of 
thunder .   "  Here they come ,  fast ,  fierce ,  and furious  !   "  

It was the rush and roar of rain that he typified ,  and it 
stopped him ,  for no voice could be heard in it .  A memor -  
able storm of thunder and lightning broke with that sweep 
of water ,  and there was not a moments interval in crash ,  
and fire ,  and rain ,  until after the moon rose at midnight .  

The great bell of Saint Pauls was striking One in the 
cleared air ,  when Mr .  Lorry ,  escorted by Jerry ,  high - booted 
and bearing a lantern ,  set forth on his return - passage to 
Clerkenwell .  There were solitary patches of road on the 
way between Soho and Clerkenwell ,  and Mr .  Lorry ,  mindful 
of footpads ,  always retained Jerry for this service : though 
it was usually performed a good two hours earlier .  

 " What a night it has been  !  Almost a night ,  Jerry ,  "  said 
Mr .  Lorry ,   "  to bring the dead out of their graves .  "  

 "  I never see the night myself ,  master — nor yet I dont 
expect to — what would do that ,  "  answered Jerry .  

 "  Good - night ,  Mr .  Carton ,  "  said the man of business .  
 "  Good - night ,  Mr .  Darnay .  Shall we ever see such a night 
again ,  together  !   "  



Perhaps .  Perhaps ,  see the great crowd of people 
its rush and roar ,  bearing down upon them ,  too .  



with 



CHAPTER VII 

MONSEIGNEUR IN TOWN 

Monseigneur ,  one of the great lords in power at the Court ,  
held his fortnightly reception in his grand hotel in Paris .  
Monseigneur was in his inner room ,  his sanctuary of sanctu -  
aries ,  the Holiest of Holiests to the crowd of worshippers 
in the suite of rooms without .  Monseigneur was about to 
take his chocolate .  Monseigneur could swallow a great many 
things with ease ,  and was by some few sullen minds sup -  
posed to be rather rapidly swallowing France  ;  but ,  his 
mornings chocolate could not so much as get into the 
throat of Monseigneur ,  without the aid of four strong men 
besides the Cook .  

Yes .  It took four men ,  all four a - blaze with gorgeous 
decoration ,  and the Chief of them unable to exist with fewer 
than two gold watches in his pocket ,  emulative of the noble 
and chaste fashion set by Monseigneur ,  to conduct the 
happy chocolate to Monseigneurs lips .  One lacquey carried 
the chocolate - pot into the sacred presence  ;  a second ,  milled 
and frothed the chocolate with the little instrument he 
bore for that function  ;  a third ,  presented the favoured nap -  
kin  ;  a fourth  ( he of the two gold watches )  ,  poured the 
chocolate out .  It was impossible for Monseigneur to dis -  
pense with one of these attendants on the chocolate and 
hold his high place under the admiring Heavens .  Deep 
would have been the blot upon his escutcheon if his chocolate 
had been ignobly waited on by only three men  ;  he must 
have died of two .  

Monseigneur had been out at a little supper last night ,  
where the Comedy and the Grand Opera were charmingly 
represented .  Monseigneur was out at a little supper most 
nights ,  with fascinating company .  So polite and so impres -  
sible was Monseigneur ,  that the Comedy and the Grand 
Opera had far more influence with him in the tiresome 
articles of state affairs and state secrets ,  than the needs of 



A HOPEFUL STATE OF SOCIETY 1 23 

all France .  A happy circumstance for France ,  as the like 
always is for all countries similarly favoured  !  — always was 
for England  ( by way of example )  ,  in the regretted days of 
the merry Stuart who sold it .  

Monseigneur had one truly noble idea of general public 
business ,  which was ,  to let everything go on in its own way  ;  
of particular public business ,  Monseigneur had the other 
truly noble idea that it must all go his way — tend to his 
own power and pocket .  Of his pleasures ,  general and par -  
ticular ,  Monseigneur had the other truly noble idea ,  that the 
world was made for them .  The text of his order  ( altered 
from the original by only a pronoun ,  which is not much )  
ran:  " The earth and the fulness thereof are mine ,  saith 
Monseigneur .  "  

Yet ,  Monseigneur had slowly found that vulgar embar -  
rassments crept into his affairs ,  both private and public  ;  
and he had ,  as to both classes of affairs ,  allied himself per -  
force with a Farmer - General .  As to finances public ,  because 
Monseigneur could not make anything at all of them ,  and 
must consequently let them out to somebody who could  ;  
as to finances private ,  because Farmer - Generals were rich ,  and 
Monseigneur ,  after generations of great luxury and expense ,  
was growing poor .  Hence Monseigneur had taken his sister 
from a convent ,  while there was yet time to ward off the 
impending veil ,  the cheapest garment she could wear ,  and 
had bestowed her as a prize upon a very rich Farmer -  
General ,  poor in family .  Which Farmer -  General ,  carrying 
an appropriate cane with a golden apple on the top of it ,  was 
now among the company in the outer rooms ,  much pros -  
trated before by mankind — always excepting superior man -  
kind of the blood of Monseigneur ,  who ,  his own wife 
included ,  looked down upon him with the loftiest con -  
tempt .  

A sumptuous man was the Farmer - General .  Thirty 
horses stood in his stables ,  twenty - four male domestics sat 
in his halls ,  six body - women waited on his wife .  As one 
who pretended to do nothing but plunder and forage where 
he could ,  the Farmer - General — howsoever his matrimonial 
relations conduced to social morality— was at least the 
greatest reality among the personages who attended at 
the hotel of Monseigneur that day .  

For ,  the rooms ,  though a beautiful scene to look at ,  and 
adorned with every device of decoration that the taste and 



124 A TALE OF TWO CITIES 

skill of the time could achieve ,  were ,  in truth ,  not a sound 
business  ;  considered with any reference to the scarecrows in 
the rags and nightcaps elsewhere  ( and not so far off ,  either ,  
but that the watching towers of Notre Dame ,  almost equi -  
distant from the two extremes ,  could see them both )  ,  they 
would have been an exceedingly uncomfortable business — if 
that could have been anybodys business ,  at the house of 
Monseigneur .  Military officers destitute of military know -  
ledge  ;  naval officers with no idea of a ship  ;  civil officers 
without a notion of affairs  ;  brazen ecclesiastics ,  of the worst 
world worldly ,  with sensual eyes ,  loose tongues ,  and looser 
lives  ;  all totally unfit for their several callings ,  all lying 
horribly in pretending to belong to them ,  but all nearly or 
remotely of the order of Monseigneur .  and therefore foisted 
on all public employments from which anything was to be 
got  ;  these were to be told off by the score and the score .  
People not immediately connected with Monseigneur or the 
State ,  yet equally unconnected with anything that was real ,  
or with lives passed in travelling by any straight road to any 
true earthly end ,  were no less abundant .  Doctors who 
made great fortunes out of dainty remedies for imaginary 
disorders that never existed ,  smiled upon their courtly 
patients in the ante - chambers of Monseigneur .  Projectors 
who had discovered every kind of remedy for the little evils 
with which the State was touched ,  except the remedy of 
setting to work in earnest to root out a single sin .  poured 
their distracting babble into any ears they could lay hold of ,  
at the reception of Monseigneur .  Unbelieving Philosophers 
who were remodelling the world with words ,  and making 
card - towers of Babel to scale the skies with ,  talked with 
Unbelieving Chemists who had an eye on the transmutation 
of metals ,  at this wonderful gathering accumulated by 
Monseigneur .  Exquisite gentlemen of the finest breeding ,  
which was at that remarkable time— and has been since — 
to be known by its fruits of indifference to every natural 
subject of human interest ,  were in the most exemplary state 
of exhaustion ,  at the hotel of Monseigneur .  Such homes 
had these various notabilities left behind them in the fine 
world of Paris ,  that the spies among the assembled devotees 
of Monseigneur — forming a goodly half of the polite com -  
pany — would have found it hard to discover among the 
angels of that sphere one solitary wife ,  who ,  in her manners 
and appearance ,  owned to being a Mother .  Indeed ,  except 



UNREALITY 1 25 

for the mere act of bringing a troublesome creature into this 
world — which does not go far towards the realisation of the 
name of mother — there was no such thing known to the 
fashion .  Peasant women kept the unfashionable babies close ,  
and brought them up ,  and charming grandmammas of sixty 
dressed and supped as at twenty .  

The leprosy of unreality disfigured every human creature 
in attendance upon Monseigneur .  In the outermost room 
were half a dozen exceptional people who had had ,  for a few 
years ,  some vague misgiving in them that things in general 
were going rather wrong .  As a promising way of setting 
them right ,  half of the half - dozen had become members of 
a fantastic sect of Convulsionists ,  and were even then con -  
sidering within themselves whether they should foam ,  rage ,  
roar ,  and turn cataleptic on the spot — thereby setting up 
a highly intelligible finger - post to the Future ,  for Mon -  
seigneurs guidance .  Besides these Dervishes ,  were other 
three who had rushed into another sect ,  which mended 
matters with a jargon about  "  the Centre of Truth :  "  holding 
that Man had got out of the Centre of Truth — which did not 
need much demonstration — but had not got out of the 
Circumference ,  and that he was to be kept from flying out 
of the Circumference ,  and was even to be shoved back into 
the Centre ,  by fasting and seeing of spirits .  Among these ,  
accordingly ,  much discoursing with spirits went on -  — and it 
did a world of good which never became manifest .  

But ,  the comfort was ,  that all the company at the grand 
hotel of Monseigneur were perfectly dressed .  If the Day of 
Judgment had only been ascertained to be a dress day ,  
everybody there would have been eternally correct .  Such 
frizzling and powdering and sticking up of hair ,  such delicate 
complexions artificially preserved and mended ,  such gallant 
swords to look at .  and such delicate honour to the sense of 
smell ,  would surely keep anything going ,  for ever and ever .  
The exquisite gentlemen of the finest breeding wore little 
pendent trinkets that chinked as they languidly moved  ;  
these golden fetters rang like precious little bells  ;  and what 
with that ringing ,  and with the rustle of silk and brocade 
and fine linen ,  there was a flutter in the air that fanned 
Saint Antoine and his devouring hunger far away .  

Dress was the one unfailing talisman and charm used for 
keeping all things in their places .  Everybody was dressed 
for a Fancy Ball that was never to leave off .  From the 



T26 A TALE OF TWO CITIES 

Palace of the Tuileries ,  through Monseigneur and the whole 
Court ,  thi - ough the Chamhers ,  the Tribunals of Justice ,  and 
all society  ( except the scarecrows )  ,  the Fancy Ball descended 
to the Common Executioner : who ,  in pursuance of the charm ,  
was required to officiate i: frizzled ,  powdered ,  in a gold - laced 
coat ,  pumps ,  and white silk stockings .  "  At the gallows and 
the wheel — the axe was a rarity — Monsieur Paris ,  as it was 
the episcopal mode among his brother Professors of the 
provinces ,  Monsieur Orleans ,  and the rest ,  to call him ,  pre -  
sided in this dainty dress .  And who among the company 
at Monseigneurs reception in that seventeen hundred and 
eightieth year of our Lord ,  could possibly doubt ,  that 
a system rooted in a frizzled hangman ,  powdered ,  gold - laced ,  
pumped ,  and white - silk stockinged ,  would see the very stars 
out  !  

Monseigneur having eased his four men of their burdens 
and taken his chocolate ,  caused the doors of the Holiest of 
Holiests to be thrown open ,  and issued forth .  Then ,  what 
submission ,  what cringing and fawning ,  what servility ,  what 
abject humiliation  !  As to bowing down in body and spirit ,  
nothing in that way was left for Heaven — which may have 
been one among other reasons why the worshippers of 
Monseigneur never troubled it .  

Bestowing a word of promise here and a smile there ,  
a whisper on one happy slave and a wave of the hand on 
another ,  Monseigneur affably passed through his rooms to 
the remote region of the Circumference of Truth .  There ,  
Monseigneur turned ,  and came back again ,  and so in due 
course of time got himself shut up in his sanctuary by the 
chocolate sprites ,  and was seen no more .  

The show being over ,  the flutter in the air became quite 
a little storm ,  and the precious little bells went ringing 
down - stairs .  There was soon but one person left of all the 
crowd ,  and he ,  with his hat under his arm and his snuff -  
box in his hand ,  slowly passed among the mirrors on his 
way out .  

 " I devote you ,  "  said this person ,  stopping at the last door 
on his way ,  and turning in the direction of the sanctuary ,  
 " to the Devil !  "  

With that ,  he shook the snuff from his fingers as if he 
had shaken the dust from his feet ,  and quietly walked 
down - stairs .  

He was a man of about sixty ,  handsomely dressed ,  haughty 



 / %X&*ta ! &&ii> 




H 
 - A 


o 

w 



w 
< !  

o 

H 
W 

w 



MONSEIGNEUR S MANNER I29 

in manner ,  and with a face like a fine mask .  A face of 
a transparent paleness  ;  every feature in it clearly defined  ;  
one set expression on it .  The nose ,  beautifully formed other -  
wise ,  was very slightly pinched at the top of each nostril .  
In those two compressions ,  or dints ,  the only little change 
that the face ever showed ,  resided .  They persisted in 
changing colour sometimes ,  and they would be occasionally 
dilated and contracted by something like a faint pulsation  ;  
then ,  they gave a look of treachery ,  and cruelty ,  to the whole 
countenance .  Examined with attention ,  its capacity of helping 
such a look was to be found in the line of the mouth ,  and 
the lines of the orbits of the eyes ,  being much too horizontal 
and thin  ;  still ,  in the effect the face made ,  it was a handsome 
face ,  and a remarkable one .  

Its owner went down - stairs into the court - yard ,  got into 
his carriage ,  and drove away .  Not many people had talked 
with him at the reception  ;  he had stood in a little space 
apart ,  and Monseigneur might have been warmer in his 
manner .  It appeared ,  under the circumstances ,  rather agree -  
able to him to see the common people dispersed before his 
horses ,  and often barely escaping from being run down .  His 
man drove as if he were charging an enemy ,  and the furious 
recklessness of the man brought no check into the face ,  or 
to the lips ,  of the master .  The complaint had sometimes 
made itself audible ,  even in that deaf city and dumb age ,  
that ,  in the narrow streets without footways ,  the fierce 
patrician custom of hard driving endangered and maimed the 
mere vulgar in a barbarous manner .  But ,  few cared enough 
for that to think of it a second time ,  and ,  in this matter ,  as 
in all others ,  the common wretches were left to get out of 
their difficulties as they could .  

With a wild rattle and clatter ,  and an inhuman abandon -  
ment of consideration not easy to be understood in these 
days ,  the carriage dashed through streets and swept round 
corners ,  with women screaming before it ,  and men clutch -  
ing each other and clutching children out of its way .  At 
last ,  swooping at a street corner by a fountain ,  one of its 
wheels came to a sickening little jolt ,  and there was a loud 
cry from a number of voices ,  and the horses reared and 
plunged .  

But for the latter inconvenience ,  the carriage probably 
would not have stopped  ;  carriages were often known to drive 
on ,  and leave their wounded behind ,  and why not ? But 
1 .  E 



130 A TALE OF TWO CITIES 

the frightened valet had got down in a hurry ,  and there were 
twenty hands at the horses bridles .  

 " What has gone wrong?* said Monsieur ,  calmly looking 
out .  

A tall man in a nightcap had caught up a bundle from 
among the feet of the horses ,  and had laid it on the base -  
ment of the fountain ,  and was down in the mud and wet ,  
howling over it like a wild animal .  

 " Pardon ,  Monsieur the Marquis  !   "  said a ragged and sub -  
missive man ,   " it is a child .  "  

 "  Why does he make that abominable noise ? Is it his 
child ?  "  

 " Excuse me .  Monsieur the Marquis — it is a pity — yes .  "  

The fountain was a little removed  ;  for the street opened ,  
where it was ,  into a space some ten or twelve yards square .  
As the tall man suddenly got up from the ground ,  and came 
running at the carriage ,  Monsieur the Marquis clapped his 
hand for an instant on his sword - hilt .  

 "  Killed  !   "  shrieked the man ,  in wild desperation ,  extend -  
ing both arms at their length above his head ,  and staring at 
him .   "  Dead  !   "  

The people closed round ,  and looked at Monsieur the 
Marquis .  There was nothing revealed by the many eyes that 
looked at him but watchfulness and eagerness  ;  there was 
no visible menacing or anger .  Neither did the people say 
anything  ;  after the first cry ,  they had been silent ,  and they 
remained so .  The voice of the submissive man who had 
spoken ,  was flat and tame in its extreme submission .  Mon -  
sieur the Marquis ran his eyes over them all ,  as if they had 
been mere rats come out of their holes .  

He took out his purse .  

 " It is extraordinary to me ,  "  said he ,   " that you people 
cannot take care of yourselves and your children .  One or 
the other of you is for ever in the way .  How do I know what 
injury you have done my horses? See  !  Give him that .  "  

He threw out a gold coin for the valet to pick up ,  and all 
the heads craned forward that all the eyes might look down 
at it as it fell .  The tall man called out again with a most 
unearthly cry ,   "  Dead  !   "  

He was arrested by the quick arrival of another man .  for 
whom the rest made way .  On seeing him ,  the miserable 
creature fell upon his shoulder ,  sobbing and crying ,  and 
pointing to the fountain ,  where some women were stooping 



A PHILOSOPHER 131 

over the motionless bundle ,  and moving gently about it .  
They were as silent ,  however ,  as the men .  

 " I know all ,  I know all ,  "  said the last comer .  Be a 
brave man ,  my Gaspare !   !  It is better for the poor little 
plaything to die so ,  than to live .  It has died in a moment 
without pain .  Could it have lived an hour as happily ?  "  

 "  You are a philosopher ,  you there ,  "  said the Marquis ,  
smiling .   "  How do they call you ?  "  

 " They call me Defarge .  "  

 "  Of what trade ?  "  

 " Monsieur the Marquis ,  vendor of wine .  "  

 " Pick up that ,  philosopher and vendor of wine ,  "  said the 
Marquis ,  throwing him another gold coin ,   " and spend it as 
you will .  The horses there  ;  are they right ?  "  

Without deigning to look at the assemblage a second time .  
Monsieur the Marquis leaned back in his seat ,  and was just 
being driven away with the air of a gentleman who had 
accidentally broken some common thing ,  and had paid for it ,  
and could afford to pay for it  ;  when his ease was suddenly 
disturbed by a coin flying into his carriage ,  and ringing on 
its floor .  

 "  Hold  !   "  said Monsieur the Marquis .   "  Hold the horses  !  
Who threw that ?  "  

He looked to the spot where Defarge the vendor of wine 
had stood ,  a moment before  ;  but the wretched father was 
grovelling on his face on the pavement in that spot ,  and the 
figure that stood beside him was the figure of a dark stout 
woman ,  knitting .  

 "  You dogs  !   "  said the Marquis ,  but smoothly ,  and with 
an unchanged front ,  except as to the spots on his nose :  "  I 
would ride over any of you very willingly ,  and exterminate 
you from the earth .  If I knew which rascal threw at the 
carriage ,  and if that brigand were sufficiently near it .  he 
should be crushed under the wheels .  "  

So cowed was their condition ,  and so long and hard their 
experience of what such a man could do to them ,  within the 
law and beyond it ,  that not a voice ,  or a hand ,  or even an 
eye was raised .  Among the men ,  not one .  But the woman 
who stood knitting looked up steadily ,  and looked the Marquis 
in the face .  It was not for his dignity to notice it  ;  his con -  
temptuous eyes passed over her ,  and over all the other rats : 
and he leaned back in his seat again ,  and gave the word 
 "  Go on  !   "  



132 A TALE OF TWO CITIES 

He was driven on ,  and other carriages came whirling hy 
in quick succession  ;  the Minister ,  the State - Projector ,  the 
Farmer - General ,  the Doctor ,  the Lawyer ,  the Ecclesiastic ,  the 
Grand Opera ,  the Comedy ,  the whole Fancy Ball in a bright 
continuous flow ,  came whirling by .  The rats had crept out 
of their holes to look on ,  and they remained looking on for 
hours  ;  soldiers and police often passing between them and 
the spectacle ,  and making a barrier behind which they slunk ,  
and through which they peeped .  The father had long ago 
taken up his bundle and hidden himself away with it ,  when 
the women who had tended the bundle while it lay on the 
base of the fountain ,  sat there watching the running of the 
water and the rolling of the Fancy Ball— when the one 
woman who had stood conspicuous ,  knitting ,  still knitted on 
with the steadfastness of Fate .  The water of the fountain 
ran ,  the swift river ran ,  the day ran into evening ,  so much 
life in the city ran into death according to rule ,  time and tide 
waited for no man ,  the rats were sleeping close together in 
their dark holes again ,  the Fancy Ball was lighted up at 
supper ,  all things ran their course .  



CHAPTER VIII 

MONSEIGNEUR IN THE COUNTRY 

A beautiful landscape ,  with the corn bright in it ,  but not 
abundant .  Patches of poor rye where corn should have 
been ,  patches of poor peas and beans ,  patches of most coarse 
vegetable substitutes for wheat .  On inanimate nature ,  as on 
the men and women who cultivated it ,  a prevalent tendency 
towards an appearance of vegetating unwillingly — a dejected 
disposition to give up ,  and wither away .  

Monsieur the Marquis in his travelling carriage  ( which 
might have been lighter )  ,  conducted by four post - horses and 
two postilions ,  fagged up a steep hill .  A blush on the 
countenance of Monsieur the Marquis was no impeachment of 
his high breeding  ;  it was not from within  ;  it was occasioned 
by an external circumstance beyond his control — the setting 
sun .  

The sunset struck so brilliantly into the travelling carriage 
when it gained the hill - top ,  that its occupant was steeped in 
crimson .   " It will die out ,  "  said Monsieur the Marquis ,  
glancing at his hands ,   "  directly .  "  

In effect ,  the sun was so low that it dipped at the moment .  
When the heavy drag had been adjusted to the wheel ,  and 
the carriage slid down hill ,  with a cinderous smell ,  in a cloud 
of dust ,  the red glow departed quickly  ;  the sun and the 
Marquis going down together ,  there was no glow left when 
the drag was taken off .  

But ,  there remained a broken country ,  bold and open ,  
a little village at the bottom of the hill ,  a broad sweep and 
rise beyond it ,  a church - tower ,  a windmill ,  a forest for the 
chase ,  and a crag with a fortress on it used as a prison .  
Round upon all these darkening objects as the night drew 
on ,  the Marquis looked ,  with the air of one who was coming 
near home .  

The village had its one poor street ,  with its poor brewery ,  
poor tannery ,  poor tavern ,  poor stable  - yard for relay of 



134 A TALE OF TWO CITIES 

post - horses ,  poor fountain ,  all usual poor appointments .  It 
had its poor people too .  All its people were poor ,  and 
many of them were sitting at their doors ,  shredding spare 
onions and the like for supper ,  while many were at the 
fountain ,  washing leaves ,  and grasses ,  and any such small 
yieldings of the earth that could he eaten .  Expressive signs 
of what made them poor ,  were not wanting  ;  the tax for the 
state ,  the tax for the church ,  the tax for the lord ,  tax local 
and tax general ,  were to be paid here and to be paid there ,  
according to solemn inscription in the little village ,  until 
the wonder was ,  that there was any village left unswallowed .  

Few children were to be seen ,  and no dogs .  As to the 
men and women ,  their choice on earth was stated in the 
prospect — Life on the lowest terms that could sustain it ,  
down in the little village under the mill  ;  or captivity and 
Death in the dominant prison on the crag .  

Heralded by a courier in advance ,  and by the cracking of 
his postilions whips ,  which twined snake - like about their 
heads in the evening air ,  as if he came attended by the 
Furies ,  Monsieur the Marquis drew up in his travelling 
carriage at the posting - house gate .  It was hard by the 
fountain ,  and the peasants suspended their operations to 
look at him .  He looked at them ,  and saw in them ,  without 
knowing it ,  the slow sure filing down of misery - worn face 
and figure ,  that was to make the meagreness of Frenchmen 
an English suj^erstition which should survive the truth 
through the best part of a hundred years .  

Monsieur the Marquis cast his eyes over the submissive 
faces that drooped before him ,  as the like of himself had 
drooped before Monseigneur of the Court — only the differ -  
ence was ,  that these faces drooped merely to suffer and not 
to propitiate — when a grizzled mender of the roads joined 
the group .  

 "  Bring me hither that fellow  !   "  said the Marquis to the 
courier .  

The fellow was brought ,  cap in hand ,  and the other fellows 
closed round to look and listen ,  in the manner of the people 
at the Paris fountain .  

 "  I passed you on the road ?  "  

Monseigneur ,  it is true .  I had the honour of being 
passed on the road .  "  

 " Coming up the hill ,  and at the top of the hill ,  both? "  

 "  Monseigneur ,  it is true .  "  



A MAN TOO MANY I35 

 " What did you look at ,  so fixedly? "  

 "  Monseigneur ,  I looked at the man .  "  

He stooped a little ,  and with his tattered blue cap pointed 
under the carriage .  All his fellows stooped to look under 
the carriage .  

  What man ,  pig ? And why look there ?  "  

 " Pardon ,  Monseigneur ;  he swung by the chain of the 
shoe — the drag .  "  

 " Who? "  demanded the traveller .  

 " Monseigneur ,  the man .  "  

 " May the Devil carry away these idiots !  How do you 
call the man ? You know all the men of this part of the 
country .  Who was he ?  "  

 "  Your clemency ,  Monseigneur  !  He was not of this part 
of the country .  Of all the days of my life ,  I never saw him .  "  

 "  Swinging by the chain ? To be suffocated ?  "  

 " With your gracious permission ,  that was the wonder of 
it ,  Monseigneur .  His head hanging over — like this  !   "  

He turned himself sideways to the carriage ,  and leaned 
back ,  with his face thrown up to the sky ,  and his head 
hanging down  ;  then recovered himself ,  fumbled with his 
cap ,  and made a bow .  

 " What was he like? "  

 " Monseigneur ,  he was whiter than the miller .  All 
covered with dust ,  white as a spectre ,  tall as a spectre  !   "  

The picture produced an immense sensation in the little 
crowd  ;  but all eyes ,  without comparing notes with other 
eyes ,  looked at Monsieur the Marquis .  Perhaps ,  to observe 
whether he had any spectre on his conscience .  

 " Truly ,  you did well ,  "  said the Marquis ,  felicitously 
sensible that such vermin were not to ruffle him ,   "  to see 
a thief accompanying my carriage ,  and not open that great 
mouth of yours .  Bah  !  Put him aside ,  Monsieur Gabelle  !   "  

Monsieur Gabelle was the Postmaster ,  and some other 
taxing functionary united  ;  he had come out with great 
obsequiousness to assist at this examination ,  and had held 
the examined by the drapery of his arm in an official manner .  

 "  Bah  !  Go aside  !   "  said Monsieur Gabelle .  

 "  Lay hands on this stranger if he seeks to lodge in your 
village to - night ,  and be sure that his business is honest ,  
Gabelle .  "  

 "  Monseigneur ,  I am flattered to devote myself to your 
orders .  "  



136 A TALE OF TWO CITIES 

 " Did he run away ,  fellow? — where is that Accursed? "  

The accursed was already under the carriage with some 
half - dozen particular friends ,  pointing out the chain with his 
blue cap .  Some half - dozen other particular friends promptly 
hauled him out ,  and presented him breathless to Monsieur 
the Marquis .  

 Did the man run away ,  Dolt ,  when we stopped for the 
drag? "  

• Monseigneur ,  he precipitated himself over the hill - side ,  
head first ,  as a person plunges into the river .  "  

 "  See to it ,  Gabelle .  Goon !  "  

The half - dozen who were peering at the chain were still 
among the wheels ,  like sheep  ;  the wheels turned so suddenly 
that they were lucky to save their skins and bones  ;  they 
had very little else to save ,  or they might not have been so 
fortunate .  

The burst with which the carriage started out of the 
village and up the rise beyond ,  was soon checked by the 
steepness of the hill .  Gradually ,  it subsided to a foot - pace ,  
swinging and lumbering upward among the many sweet 
scents of a summer night .  The postilions ,  with a thousand 
gossamer gnats circling about them in lieu of the Furies ,  
quietly mended the points to the lashes of their whips  ;  the 
valet walked by the horses  ;  the courier was audible ,  trotting 
on ahead into the dim distance .  

At the steepest point of the hill there was a little burial -  
ground ,  with a Cross and a new large figure of Our Saviour 
on it  ;  it was a poor figure in wood ,  done by some inex -  
perienced rustic carver ,  but he had studied the figure from 
the life — his own life ,  maybe— for it was dreadfully spare 
and thin .  

To this distressful emblem of a great distress that had 
long been growing worse ,  and was not at its worst ,  a woman 
was kneeling .  She turned her head as the carriage came up to 
her ,  rose quickly ,  and presented herself at the carriage - door .  

 "  It is you .  Monseigneur  !  Monseigneur .  a petition .  "  

With an exclamation of impatience ,  but with his un -  
changeable face .  Monseigneur looked out .  

 "  How ,  then  !  What is it ? Always petitions  !   "  

 "  Monseigneur .  For the love of the great God  !  My 
husband ,  the forester .  "  

 " What of your husband ,  the forester? Always the same 
with you people .  He cannot pay something? "  



A PETITION TO MONSEIGNEUR 1 37 

 " He has paid all ,  Monseigneur .  He is dead .  "  

 "  Well  !  He is quiet .  Can I restore him to you ?  "  

 " Alas ,  no ,  Monseigneur !  But he lies yonder ,  under 
a little heap of poor grass .  "  

 " Well? "  

 " Monseigneur ,  there are so many little heaps of poor 
grass ?  "  

 "  Again ,  well? "  

She looked an old woman ,  but was young .  Her manner 
was one of passionate grief  ;  by turns she clasped her veinous 
and knotted hands together with wild energy ,  and laid one 
of them on the carriage - door — tenderly ,  caressingly ,  as if it 
had been a human breast ,  and could be expected to feel the 
appealing touch .  

 Monseigneur ,  hear me  !  Monseigneur ,  hear my petition  !  
My husband died of want  ;  so many die of want  ;  so many 
more will die of want .  "  

 "  Again ,  well ? Can I feed them ?  "  

 "  Monseigneur ,  the good God knows  ;  but I dont ask it .  
My petition is ,  that a morsel of stone or wood ,  with my 
husbands name ,  may be placed over him to show where he 
lies .  Otherwise ,  the place will be quickly forgotten ,  it will 
never be found when I am dead of the same malady ,  I shall 
be laid under some other heap of poor grass .  Monseigneur ,  
they are so many ,  they increase so fast ,  there is so much 
want .  Monseigneur  !  Monseigneur  !   "  

The valet had put her away from the door ,  the carriage 
had broken into a brisk trot ,  the postilions had quickened 
the pace ,  she was left far behind ,  and Monseigneur ,  again 
escorted by the Furies ,  was rapidly diminishing the league 
or two of distance that remained between him and his 
chateau .  

The sweet scents of the summer night rose all around 
him ,  and rose ,  as the rain falls ,  impartially ,  on the dusty ,  
ragged ,  and toil - worn group at the fountain not far away  ;  
to whom the mender of roads ,  with the aid of the blue cap 
without which he was nothing ,  still enlarged upon his man 
like a spectre ,  as long as they could bear it .  By degrees ,  
as they could bear no more ,  they dropped off one by one .  
and lights twinkled in little casements  ;  which lights ,  as 
the casements darkened ,  and more stars came out ,  seemed 
to have shot up into the sky instead of having been extin -  
guished .  

i .  E3 



138 A TALE OF TWO CITIES 

The shadow of a large high - roofed house ,  and of many 
overhanging trees ,  was upon Monsieur the Marquis by that 
time  ;  and the shadow was exchanged for the light of 
a flambeau ,  as his carriage stopped ,  and the great door 
of his chateau was opened to him .  

Monsieur Charles ,  whom I expect ;  is he arrived from 
England ?  "  

 "  Monseigneur ,  not yet .  "  



CHAPTER IX 

the gorgons head 

It was a heavy mass of building ,  that chateau of Monsieur 
the Marquis ,  with a large stone court - yard before it ,  and two 
stone sweeps of staircase meeting in a stone terrace before 
the principal door .  A stony business altogether ,  with heavy 
stone balustrades ,  and stone urns ,  and stone flowers ,  and 
stone faces of men ,  and stone heads of lions ,  in all directions .  
As if the Gorgons head had surveyed it ,  when it was finished ,  
two centuries ago .  

Up the broad flight of shallow steps ,  Monsieur the Marquis ,  
flambeau preceded ,  went from his carriage ,  sufficiently dis -  
turbing the darkness to elicit loud remonstrance from an 
owl in the roof of the great pile of stable building away 
among the trees .  All else was so quiet ,  that the flambeau 
carried up the steps ,  and the other flambeau held at the 
great door ,  burnt as if they were in a close room of state ,  
instead of being in the open night - air .  Other sound than 
the owls voice there was none ,  save the falling of a fountain 
into its stone basin  ;  for ,  it was one of those dark nights 
that hold their breath by the hour together ,  and then heave 
a long low sigh ,  and hold their breath again .  

The great door clanged behind him ,  and Monsieur the 
Marquis crossed a hall grim with certain old boar - spears ,  
swords ,  and knives of the chase  ;  grimmer with certain heavy 
riding - rods and riding - whips ,  of which many a peasant ,  gone 
to his benefactor Death ,  had felt the weight when his lord 
was angry .  

Avoiding the larger rooms ,  which were dark and made 
fast for the night ,  Monsieur the Marquis ,  with his flambeau -  
bearer going on before ,  went up the staircase to a door in 
a corridor .  This thrown open ,  admitted him to his own 
private apartment of three rooms : his bed - chamber and two 
others .  High vaulted rooms with cool uncarpeted floors ,  
great dogs upon the hearths for the burning of wood in 



140 A TALE OF TWO CITIES 

winter time ,  and all luxuries befitting the state of a marquis 
in a luxurious age and country .  The fashion of the last 
Louis but one ,  of the line that was never to break — the 
fourteenth Louis — was conspicuous in their rich furniture  ;  
but ,  it was diversified by many objects that were illustrations 
of old pages in the history of France .  

A supper -  table was laid for two ,  in the third of the rooms  ;  
a round room ,  in one of the chateaus four extinguisher -  
topped towers .  A small lofty room ,  with its window wide 
open ,  and the wooden jalousie - blinds closed ,  so that the 
dark night only showed in slight horizontal lines of black ,  
alternating with their broad lines of stone colour .  

 " My nephew ,  said the Marquis ,  glancing at the supper 
preparation  ;   " they said he was not arrived .  "  

Nor was he  ;  but ,  he had been expected with Monseigneur .  

 " Ah  !  It is not probable he will arrive to - night  ;  never -  
theless ,  leave the table as it is .  I shall be ready in a quarter 
of an hour .  "  

In a quarter of an hour Monseigneur was ready ,  and sat 
down alone to his sumptuous and choice supper .  His chair 
was opposite to the window ,  and he had taken his soup ,  and 
was raising his glass of Bordeaux to his lips ,  when he put it 
down .  

 "  What is that ?  "  he calmly asked ,  looking with attention 
at the horizontal lines of black and stone colour .  

 ;   Monseigneur ? That ?  "  

 "  Outside the blinds .  Open the blinds .  "  

It was done .  

 " Well? "  

 " Monseigneur ,  it is nothing .  The trees and the night 
are all that are here .  "  

The servant Avho spoke ,  had thrown the blinds wide ,  had 
looked out into the vacant darkness ,  and stood ,  with that 
blank behind him ,  looking round for instructions .  

 " Good ,  "  said the imperturbable master .   " Close them 



again .  "  



That was done too .  and the Marquis went on with his 
supper .  He was half - way through it .  when  \ w again stopped 
with his glass in his hand ,  hearing the sound of wheels .  It 
came on briskly ,  and came up to the front of the chateau .  

 " Ask who is arrived .  "  

It was the nephew of Monseigneur .  He had been some 
few leagues behind Monseigneur .  early in the afternoon .  



MONSEIGNEUR AND HIS NEPHEW 1 41 

He had diminished the distance rapidly ,  but not so rapidly 
as to come up with Monseigneur on the road .  He had 
heard of Monseigneur ,  at the posting - houses ,  as being before 
him .  

He was to be told  ( said Monseigneur )  that supper awaited 
him then and there ,  and that he was prayed to come to it .  
In a little while he came .  He had been known in England 
as Charles Darnay .  

Monseigneur received him in a courtly manner ,  but they 
did not shake hands .  

 " You left Paris yesterday ,  sir? "  he said to Monseigneur ,  
as he took his seat at table .  

•• Yesterday .  And you ?  "  

•• I come direct .  "  

 -  From London ?  "  

 " Yes .  "  

 " You have been a long time coming ,  "  said the Marquis ,  
with a smile .  

 "  On the contrary  ;  I come direct .  "  

 "  Pardon me  !  I mean ,  not a long time on the journey  ;  
a long time intending the journey .  "  

 " I have been detained by "  — the nephew stopped a 
moment in his answer —  ;   various business .  "  

 "  Without doubt ,  "  said the polished uncle .  

So long as a servant was present ,  no other words passed 
between them .  When coffee had been served and they 
were alone together ,  the nephew ,  looking at the uncle and 
meeting the eyes of the face that was like a fine mask ,  
opened a conversation .  

 " I have come back ,  sir ,  as you anticipate ,  pursuing the 
object that took me away .  It carried me into great and 
unexpected peril  ;  but it is a sacred object ,  and if it had 
carried me to death I hope it would have sustained me .  "  

• Not to death ,  "  said the uncle  ;   "  it is not necessary to 
say ,  to death .  "  

 "  I doubt ,  sir ,  "  returned the nephew ,   "  whether ,  if it had 
carried me to the utmost brink of death ,  you would have 
cared to stop me there .  "  

The deepened marks in the nose ,  and the lengthening of 
the fine straight lines in the cruel face ,  looked ominous as 
to that  ;  the uncle made a graceful gesture of protest ,  which 
was so clearly a slight form of good breeding that it was 
not reassuring .  



I42 A TALE OF TWO CITIES 

 "  Indeed ,  sir ,  "  pursued the nephew ,   "  for anything I know ,  
you may have expressly worked to give a more suspicious 
appearance to the suspicious circumstances that surrounded 
me .  

• No ,  no ,  no ,  "  said the uncle ,  pleasantly .  

 "  But ,  however that may be ,  "  resumed the nephew ,  glanc -  
ing at him with deep distrust ,   "  I know that your diplomacy 
would stop me by any means ,  and would know no scruple 
as to means .  "  

 "  My friend ,  I told you so ,  "  said the uncle ,  with a fine 
pulsation in the two marks .  4i Do me the favour to recall 
that I told you so ,  long ago .  "  

 "  I recall it .  "  

 " Thank you ,  "  said the Marquis — very sweetly indeed .  

His tone lingered in the air ,  almost like the tone of a 
musical instrument .  

 "  In effect ,  sir ,  "  pursued the nephew ,  u I believe it to be 
at once your bad fortune ,  and my good fortune ,  that has 
kept me out of a prison in France here .  "  

 "  I do not quite understand ,  "  returned the uncle ,  sipping 
his coffee .   "  Dare I ask you to explain ?  "  

 "  I believe that if you were not in disgrace with the Court ,  
and had not been overshadowed by that cloud for years past ,  
a letter de cachet would have sent me to some fortress 
indefinitely .  "  

 "  It is possible ,  "  said the uncle ,  with great calmness .  
 "  For the honour of the family ,  I could even resolve to 
incommode you to that extent .  Pray excuse me  !   "  

 "  I perceive that ,  happily for me ,  the Keception of the 
day before yesterday was ,  as usual ,  a cold one ,  "  observed the 
nephew .  

 "  I would not say happily ,  my friend ,  "  returned the uncle ,  
with refined politeness  ;   "  I would not be sure of that .  A 
good opportunity for consideration ,  surrounded by the ad -  
vantages of solitude ,  might influence your destiny to far 
greater advantage than you influence it for yourself .  But it 
is useless to discuss the question .  I am ,  as you say .  at 
a disadvantage .  These little instruments of correction ,  these 
gentle aids to the power and honour of families ,  these slight 
favours that might so incommode you ,  are only to be 
obtained now by interest and importunity .  They are sought 
by so many ,  and they are granted  ( comparatively )  to so few  !  
It used not to be so .  but France in all such things is 



REPRESSION I43 

changed for the worse .  Our not remote ancestors held the 
right of life and death over the surrounding vulgar .  From 
this room ,  many such dogs have been taken out to be 
hanged  ;  in the next room  ( my bedroom )  ,  one fellow ,  to our 
knowledge ,  was poniarded on the spot for professing some 
insolent delicacy respecting his daughter — his daughter? 
We have lost many privileges  ;  a new philosophy has be -  
come the mode  ;  and the assertion of our station ,  in these 
days ,  might  ( I do not go so far as to say would ,  but might )  
cause us real inconvenience .  All very bad ,  very bad  !   "  

The Marquis took a gentle little pinch of snuff ,  and shook 
his head  ;  as elegantly despondent as he could becomingly 
be of a country still containing himself ,  that great means 
of regeneration .  

 " We have so asserted our station ,  both in the old time 
and in the modern time also ,  "  said the nephew ,  gloomily ,  
 "  that I believe our name to be more detested than any 
name in France .  "  

 "  Let us hope so ,  "  said the uncle .   "  Detestation of the 
high is the involuntary homage of the low .  "  

 " There is not ,  "  pursued the nephew ,  in his former tone ,  
 " a face I can look at ,  in all this country round about us ,  
which looks at me with any deference on it but the dark 
deference of fear and slavery .  "  

 " A compliment ,  "  said the Marquis ,   " to the grandeur of 
the family ,  merited by the manner in which the family has 
sustained its grandeur .  Hah  !   "  And he took another 
gentle little pinch of snuff ,  and lightly crossed his legs .  

But ,  when his nephew ,  leaning an elbow on the table ,  
covered his eyes thoughtfully and dejectedly with his hand ,  
the fine mask looked at him sideways with a stronger con -  
centration of keenness ,  closeness ,  and dislike ,  than was corn -  
portable with its wearers assumption of indifference .  

 " Repression is the only lasting philosophy .  The dark 
deference of fear and slavery ,  my friend ,  "  observed the 
Marquis ,   "  will keep the dogs obedient to the whip ,  as long 
as this roof ,  "  looking up to it ,   "  shuts out the sky .  "  

That might not be so long as the Marquis supposed .  If 
a picture of the chateau as it was to be a very few years 
hence ,  and of fifty like it as they too were to be a very few 
years hence ,  could have been shown to him that night ,  he 
might have been at a loss to claim his own from the ghastly ,  
fire - charred ,  plunder - wrecked ruins .  As for the roof he 



144 A TALE OF TWO CITIES 

vaunted ,  he might have found that shutting out the sky in 
a new way — to wit ,  for ever ,  from the eyes of the bodies 
into which its lead was fired ,  out of the barrels of a hundred 
thousand muskets .  

 " Meanwhile ,  "  said the Marquis ,   " I will preserve the 
honour and repose of the family ,  if you will not .  But you 
must be fatigued .  Shall we terminate our conference for 
the night ?  "  

 " A moment more .  "  

 "  An hour ,  if you please .  "  

 "  Sir ,  "  said the nephew .   "  we have done wrong ,  and are 
reaping the fruits of wrong .  "  

 "  We have done wrong ?  "  repeated the Marquis ,  with an 
inquiring smile ,  and delicately pointing ,  first to his nephew ,  
then to himself .  

•• Our family  ;  our honourable family ,  whose honour is of 
so much account to both of us ,  in such different ways .  Even 
in my fathers time ,  we did a world of wrong ,  injuring every 
human creature who came between us and our pleasure ,  what -  
ever it was .  Why need I speak of my fathers time ,  when 
it is equally yours ? Can I separate my fathers twin - brother ,  
joint inheritor ,  and next successor ,  from himself?  "  

 "  Death has done that  !   "  said the Marquis .  

 "  And has left me ,  "  answered the nephew .   "  bound to a 
system that is frightful to me ,  responsible for it .  but power -  
less in it  ;  seeking to execute the last request of my dear 
mothers lips ,  and obey the last look of my dear mothers 
eyes ,  which implored me to have mercy and to redress  ;  and 
tortured by seeking assistance and power in vain .  "  

 " Seeking them from me .  my nephew ,  "  said the Marquis ,  
touching him on the breast with his forefinger — they were 
now standing by the hearth —  "  you will for ever seek them 
in vain ,  be assured .  "  

Every fine straight line in the clear whiteness of his face ,  
was cruelly ,  craftily ,  and closely compressed ,  while he stood 
looking quietly at his nephew ,  with his snuff - box in his hand .  

Once again he touched him on the breast ,  as though his 
finger were the fine point of a small sword ,  with which ,  in 
delicate finesse ,  he ran him through the body ,  and said .  

 " My friend .  I will die ,  perpetuating the system under 
which I have lived .  "  

When he had said it ,  he took a culminating pinch of snuff ,  
and put his box in his pocket .  



THE NEW PHILOSOPHY 145 

 "  Better to be a rational creature ,  "  he added then ,  after 
ringing a small bell on the table ,   "  and accept your natural 
destiny .  But you are lost ,  Monsieur Charles ,  I sea .  "  

 " This property and France are lost to me ,  "  said the 
nephew ,  sadly  ;   "  I renounce them .  "  

 " Are they both yours to renounce ? France may be ,  but 
is the property ? It is scarcely worth mentioning  ;  but ,  is 
it yet ?  "  

 "  I had no intention ,  in the words I used ,  to claim it yet .  
If it passed to me from you ,  to - morrow  "  

 " Which I have the vanity to hope is not probable .  "  

  — or twenty years hence  "  

 "  You do me too much honour ,  "  said the Marquis  ;   "  still ,  
I prefer that supposition .  "  

 "  — I would abandon it ,  and live otherwise and elsewhere .  
It is little to relinquish .  What is it but a wilderness of 
misery and ruin ?  "  

 " Hah !  "  said the Marquis ,  glancing round the luxurious 
room .  

 " To the eye it is fair enough ,  here ;  but seen in its 
integrity ,  under the sky ,  and by the daylight ,  it is a 
crumbling tower of waste ,  mismanagement ,  extortion ,  debt ,  
mortgage ,  oppression ,  hunger ,  nakedness ,  and suffering .  "  

 "  Hah  !   "  said the Marquis again ,  in a well - satisfied manner .  

 "  If it ever becomes mine ,  it shall be put into some hands 
better qualified to free it slowly  ( if such a thing is possible )  
from the weight that drags it down ,  so that the miserable 
people who cannot leave it and who have been long wrung 
to the last point of endurance ,  may ,  in another generation ,  
suffer less  ;  but it is not for me .  There is a curse on it ,  and 
on all this land .  "  

 " And you ?  "  said the uncle .   "  Forgive my curiosity  ;  do 
you ,  under your new philosophy ,  graciously intend to 
live ?  "  

 "  I must do ,  to live ,  what others of my countrymen ,  even 
with nobility at their backs ,  may have to do some day -  
work .  "  

 "  In England ,  for example ?  "  

 " Yes .  The family honour ,  sir ,  is safe from me in this 
country .  The family name can suffer from me in no other ,  
for I bear it in no other .  "  

The ringing of the bell had caused the adjoining bed -  
chamber to be lighted .  It now shone brightly ,  through the 



I46 A TALE OF TWO CITIES 

door of communication .  The Marquis looked that way ,  and 
listened for the retreating step of his valet .  

 "  England is very attractive to you ,  seeing how indifferently 
you have prospered there ,  "  he observed then ,  turning his 
calm face to his nephew with a smile .  

 "  I have already said ,  that for my prospering there ,  I am 
sensible I may be indebted to you ,  sir .  For the rest ,  it is 
my Refuge .  "  

 "  They say ,  those boastful English ,  that it is the Refuge 
of many .  You know a compatriot who has found a Refuge 
there ? A Doctor ?  "  

 " Yes .  "  

 "  With a daughter ?  "  

 " Yes .  "  

 " Yes ,  "  said the Marquis .   " You are fatigued .  Good -  
night  !   "  

As he bent his head in his most courtly manner ,  there was 
a secrecy in his smiling face ,  and he conveyed an air of 
mystery to those words ,  which struck the eyes and ears of 
his nephew forcibly .  At the same time ,  the thin straight 
lines of the setting of the eyes ,  and the thin straight lips ,  
and the markings in the nose ,  curved with a sarcasm that 
looked handsomely diabolic .  

 "  Yes ,  "  repeated the Marquis .   "  A Doctor with a daughter .  
Yes .  So commences the new philosophy  !  You are fatigued .  
Good - night  !   "  

It would have been of as much avail to interrogate any 
stone face outside the chateau as to interrogate that face of his .  
The nephew looked at him in vain ,  in passing on to the door .  

 "  Good - night  !   "  said the uncle .   "  I look to the pleasure 
of seeing you again in the morning .  Good repose  !  Light 
Monsieur my nephew to his chamber there  !  — And burn 
Monsieur my nephew in his bed ,  if you will ,  "  he added to 
himself ,  before he rang his little bell again ,  and summoned 
his valet to his own bedroom .  

The valet come and gone ,  Monsieur the Marquis walked to 
and fro in his loose chamber - robe ,  to prepare himself gently 
for sleep ,  that hot still night .  Rustling about the room ,  his 
softly - slippered feet making no noise on the floor ,  he moved 
like a refined tiger : — looked like some enchanted marquis of 
the impenitently wicked sort ,  in story ,  whose periodical 
change into tiger form was either just going off .  or just 
coming on .  



DARKNESS AND SUNRISE 147 

He moved from end to end of his voluptuous bedroom ,  
looking again at the scraps of the days journey that came 
unbidden into his mind  ;  the slow toil up the hill at sunset ,  
the setting sun .  the descent ,  the mill ,  the prison on the crag ,  
the little village in the hollow ,  the peasants at the fountain ,  
and the mender of roads with his blue cap pointing out 
the chain under the carriage .  That fountain suggested the 
Paris fountain ,  the little bundle lying on the step ,  the women 
bending over it ,  and the tall man with his arms up ,  crying ,  
 "  Dead  !   "  

 "  I am cool now ,  "  said Monsieur the Marquis ,   "  and may 
go to bed .  "  

So ,  leaving only one light burning on the large hearth ,  he 
let his thin gauze curtains fall around him ,  and heard the 
night break its silence with a long sigh as he composed 
himself to sleep .  

The stone faces on the outer walls stared blindly at the 
black night for three heavy hours  ;  for three heavy hours the 
horses in the stables rattled at their racks ,  the dogs barked ,  
and the owl made a noise with very little resemblance in it 
to the noise conventionally assigned to the owl by men - poets .  
But it is the obstinate custom of such creatures hardly ever 
to say what is set down for them .  

For three heavy hours ,  the stone faces of the chateau ,  lion 
and human ,  stared blindly at the night .  Dead darkness lay 
on all the landscape ,  dead darkness added its own hush to 
the hushing dust on all the roads .  The burial - place had got 
to the pass that its little heaps of poor grass were undis -  
tinguishable from one another  ;  the figure on the Cross might 
have come down ,  for anything that could be seen of it .  In 
the village ,  taxers and taxed were fast asleep .  Dreaming ,  
perhaps ,  of banquets ,  as the starved usually do ,  and of ease 
and rest ,  as the driven slave and the yoked ox may ,  its lean 
inhabitants slept soundly ,  and were fed and freed .  

The fountain in the village flowed unseen and unheard ,  
and the fountain at the chateau dropped unseen and unheard 
— both melting away ,  like the minutes that were falling from 
the spring of Time — through three dark hours .  Then ,  the 
grey water of both began to be ghostly in the light ,  and the 
eyes of the stone faces of the chateau were opened .  

Lighter and lighter ,  until at last the sun touched the tops 
of the still trees ,  and poured its radiance over the hill .  In 
the glow ,  the water of the chateau fountain seemed to turn 



I48 A TALE OF TWO CITIES 

to blood ,  and the stone faces crimsoned .  The carol of the 
birds was loud and high ,  and ,  on the weather - beaten sill of 
the great window of the bedchamber of Monsieur the 
Marquis ,  one little bird sang its sweetest song with all its 
might .  At this ,  the nearest stone face seemed to stare 
amazed ,  and ,  with opened mouth and dropped under - jaw ,  
looked awe - stricken .  

Now ,  the sun was full up ,  and movement began in the 
village .  Casement windows opened ,  crazy doors were un -  
barred ,  and people came forth shivering — chilled ,  as yet ,  by 
the new sweet air .  Then began the rarely lightened toil of 
the day among the village population .  Some ,  to the fountain  ;  
some ,  to the fields  ;  men and women here ,  to dig and delve  ;  
men and women there ,  to see to the poor live stock ,  and 
lead the bony cows out ,  to such pasture as could be found 
by the roadside .  In the church and at the Cross ,  a kneeling 
figure or two  ;  attendant on the latter prayers ,  the led cow .  
trying for a breakfast among the weeds at its foot .  

The chateau awoke later ,  as became its quality ,  but awoke 
gradually and surely .  First ,  the lonely boar - spears and knives 
of the chase had been reddened as of old  ;  then ,  had gleamed 
trenchant in the morning sunshine  ;  now ,  doors and windows 
were thrown open ,  horses in their stables looked round over 
their shoulders at the light and freshness pouring in at 
doorways ,  leaves sparkled and rustled at iron - grated windows ,  
dogs pulled hard at their chains ,  and reared impatient to 
be loosed .  

All these trivial incidents belonged to the routine of life ,  
and the return of morning .  Surely ,  not so the ringing of 
the great bell of the chateau ,  nor the running up and down 
the stairs  ;  nor the hurried figures on the terrace  ;  nor the 
booting and tramping here and there and everywhere ,  nor 
the quick saddling of horses and riding away ? 

What winds conveyed this hurry to the grizzled mender 
of roads ,  already at work on the hill - top beyond the village ,  
with his days dinner  ( not much to carry )  lying in a bundle 
that it was worth no crows while to peck at ,  on a heap of 
stones? Had the birds ,  carrying some grains of it to a 
distance ,  dropped one over him as they sow chance seeds ? 
Whether or no ,  the mender of roads ran ,  on the sultry 
morning ,  as if for his life ,  down the hill ,  knee - high in dust ,  
and never stopped till he got to the fountain .  

All the people of the village were at the fountain ,  standing 



A SUDDEN SUMMONS 1 49 

about in their depressed manner ,  and whispering low ,  but 
showing no other emotions than grim curiosity and surprise .  
The led cows ,  hastily brought in and tethered to anything 
that would hold them ,  were looking stupidly on ,  or lying 
down chewing the cud of nothing particularly repaying their 
trouble ,  which they had picked up in their interrupted 
saunter .  Some of the people of the chateau ,  and some of 
those of the posting - house ,  and all the taxing authorities ,  
were armed more or less ,  and were crowded on the other side 
of the little street in a purposeless way ,  that was highly 
fraught with nothing .  Already ,  the mender of roads had 
penetrated into the midst of a group of fifty particular 
friends ,  and was smiting himself in the breast with his blue 
cap .  What did all this portend ,  and what portended the 
swift hoisting - up of Monsieur Gabelle behind a servant on 
horseback ,  and the conveying away of the said Gabelle 
 ( double - laden though the horse was )  ,  at a gallop ,  like a new 
version of the German ballad of Leonora ? 

It portended that there was one stone face too many ,  up 
at the chateau .  

The Gorgon had surveyed the building again in the night ,  
and had added the one stone face wanting  ;  the stone face 
for which it had waited through about two hundred years .  

It lay back on the pillow of Monsieur the Marquis .  It 
was like a fine mask ,  suddenly startled ,  made angry ,  and 
petrified .  Driven home into the heart of the stone figure 
attached to it ,  was a knife .  Round its hilt was a frill of 
paper ,  on which was scrawled : 

 "  Drive 1dm fast to his tomb .  This ,  from Jacques .  "  



CHAPTER X 

TWO PROMISES 

More months ,  to the number of twelve ,  had come and gone ,  
and Mr .  Charles Darnay was established in England as 
a higher teacher of the French language  " who was conversant 
with French literature .  In this age ,  he would have been 
a Professor  ;  in that age .  he was a Tutor .  He read with 
young men who could find any leisure and interest for the 
study of a living tongue spoken all over the world ,  and he 
cultivated a taste for its stores of knowledge and fancy .  
He could write of them ,  besides ,  in sound English ,  and 
render them into sound English .  Such masters were not 
at that time easily found  ;  Princes that had been ,  and Kings 
that were to be ,  were not yet of the Teacher class ,  and 
no ruined nobility had dropped out of Tellsons ledgers ,  to 
turn cooks and carpenters .  As a tutor ,  whose attainments 
made the students way unusually pleasant and profitable ,  
and as an elegant translator who brought something to his 
work besides mere dictionary knowledge ,  young Mr .  Darnay 
soon became known and encouraged .  He was well ac -  
quainted ,  moreover ,  with the circumstances of his country ,  
and those were of ever - growing interest .  So ,  with great 
perseverance and untiring industry ,  he prospered .  

In London ,  he had expected neither to walk on pave -  
ments of gold ,  nor to lie on beds of roses  ;  if he had had 
any such exalted expectation ,  he would not have prospered .  
He had expected labour ,  and he found it ,  and did it ,  and 
made the best of it .  In this ,  his prosperity consisted .  

A certain portion of his time was passed at Cambridge ,  
where he read with undergraduates as a sort of tolerated 
smuggler who drove a contraband trade in European lan -  
guages ,  instead of conveying Greek and Latin through the 
Custom - house .  The rest of his time he passed in London .  

Now ,  from the days when it was always summer in Eden ,  



CHARLES DARNAY IN LOVE 151 

to these days when it is mostly winter in fallen latitudes ,  
the world of a man has invariably gone one way — Charles 
Darnays way — the way of the love of a woman .  

He had loved Lucie Manette from the hour of his danger .  
He had never heard a sound so sweet and dear as the sound 
of her compassionate voice  ;  he had never seen a face so 
tenderly beautiful ,  as hers when it was confronted with his 
own on the edge of the grave that had been dug for him .  
But ,  he had not yet spoken to her on the subject  ;  the 
assassination at the deserted chateau far away beyond the 
heaving water and the long ,  long ,  dusty roads— the solid 
stone chateau which had itself become the mere mist of 
a dream — had been done a year ,  and he had never yet ,  by 
so much as a single spoken word ,  disclosed to her the state 
of his heart .  

That he had his reasons for this ,  he knew full well .  It 
was again a summer day when ,  lately arrived in London 
from his college occupation ,  he turned into the quiet corner 
in Soho ,  bent on seeking an opportunity of opening his 
mind to Doctor Manette .  It was the close of the summer 
day ,  and he knew Lucie to be out with Miss Pross .  

He found the Doctor reading in his arm - chair at a window .  
The energy which had at once supported him under his old 
sufferings and aggravated their sharpness ,  had been gradually 
restored to him .  He was now a very energetic man indeed ,  
with great firmness of purpose ,  strength of resolution ,  and 
vigour of action .  In his recovered energy he was sometimes 
a little fitful and sudden ,  as he had at first been in the 
exercise of his other recovered faculties  ;  but ,  this had never 
been frequently observable ,  and had grown more and more 
rare .  

He studied much ,  slept little ,  sustained a great deal of 
fatigue with ease ,  and was equably cheerful .  To him ,  now 
entered Charles Darnay ,  at sight of whom he laid aside his 
book and held out his hand .  

 " Charles Darnay !  I rejoice to see you .  We have been 
counting on your return these three or four days past .  Mr .  
Stryver and Sydney Carton were both here yesterday ,  and 
both made you out to be more than due .  "  

 " I am obliged to them for their interest in the matter ,  "  
he answered ,  a little coldly as to them ,  though very warmly 
as to the Doctor .   "  Miss Manette  "  

 " Is well ,  "  said the Doctor ,  as he stopped short ,   " and 



152 A TALE OF TWO CITIES 

your return will delight us all .  She has gone out on some 
household matters ,  but will soon be home .  "  

 " Doctor Manette ,  I knew she was from home .  I took 
the opportunity of her being from home ,  to beg to speak 
to you .  "  

There was a blank silence .  

■  Yes ?  "  said the Doctor ,  with evident constraint .   "  Bring 
your chair here ,  and speak on .  "  

He complied as to the chair ,  but appeared to find the 
speaking on less easy .  

 "  I have had the happiness ,  Doctor Manette ,  of being so 
intimate here ,  "  so he at length began ,   " for some year and 
a half ,  that I hope the topic on which I am about to touch 
may not  "  

He was stayed by the Doctors putting out his hand to 
stop him .  When he had kept it so a little while ,  he said ,  
drawing it back : 

 "  Is Lucie the topic? "  

 " She is .  "  

 " It is hard for me to speak of her at any time .  It is 
very hard for me to hear her spoken of in that tone of yours ,  
Charles Darnay .  "  

 "  It is a tone of fervent admiration ,  true homage ,  and deep 
love ,  Doctor Manette  !   "  he said deferentially .  

There was another blank silence before her father re -  
joined : 

 "  I believe it .  I do you justice  ;  I believe it .  "  

His constraint was so manifest ,  and it was so manifest ,  
too ,  that it originated in an unwillingness to approach the 
subject ,  that Charles Darnay hesitated .  

 "  Shall I go on ,  sir ?  "  

Another blank .  

 " Yes ,  go on .  "  

  "  You anticipate what I would say ,  though you cannot 
know how earnestly I say it ,  how earnestly I feel it ,  without 
knowing my secret heart ,  and the hopes and fears and 
anxieties with which it has long been laden .  Dear Doctor 
Manette ,  I love your daughter fondly ,  dearly ,  disinterestedly ,  
devotedly .  If ever there were love in the world ,  I love her .  
You have loved yourself  ;  let your old love speak for me  !   "  

The Doctor sat with his face turned away ,  and his eyes 
bent on the ground .  At the last words ,  he stretched out 
his hand again ,  hurriedly ,  and cried : 



DARN AY PLEADS HIS LOVE 1 53 

 "  Not that ,  sir  !  Let that be  !  I adjure you ,  do not 
recall that  !   "  

His ciy was so like a cry of actual pain ,  that it rang in 
Charles Darnay s ears long after he had ceased .  He motioned 
with the hand he had extended ,  and it seemed to be an 
appeal to Darnay to pause .  The latter so received it ,  and 
remained silent .  

 " I ask your pardon ,  "  said the Doctor ,  in a subdued tone ,  
after some moments .   "  I do not doubt your loving Lucie  ;  
you may be satisfied of it .  "  

He turned towards him in his chair ,  but did not look at 
him ,  or raise his eyes .  His chin dropped upon his hand ,  
and his white hair overshadowed his face : 

  Have you spoken to Lucie ?  "  

 "  No .  "  

 "  Nor written ?  "  

Never .  "  

 "  It would be ungenerous to affect not to know that your 
self - denial is to be referred to your consideration for her 
father .  Her father thanks you .  "  

He offered his hand  ;  but his eyes did not go with it .  

 "  I know ,  "  said Darnay ,  respectfully ,   "  how can I fail to 
know ,  Doctor Manette ,  I who have seen you together from 
day to day ,  that between you and Miss Manette there is an 
affection so unusual ,  so touching ,  so belonging to the circum -  
stances in which it has been nurtured ,  that it can have few 
parallels ,  even in the tenderness between a father and child .  
I know ,  Dr .  Manette — how can I fail to know — that ,  mingled 
with the affection and duty of a daughter who has become 
a woman ,  there is ,  in her heart ,  towards you ,  all the love and 
reliance of infancy itself .  I know that ,  as in her childhood 
she had no parent ,  so she is now devoted to you with all the 
constancy and fervour of her present years and character ,  
united to the trustfulness and attachment of the early days 
in which you were lost to her .  I know perfectly well that 
if you had been restored to her from the world beyond this 
life ,  you could hardly be invested ,  in her sight ,  with a more 
sacred character than that in which you are always with her .  
I know that when she is clinging to you ,  the hands of baby ,  
girl ,  and woman ,  all in one ,  are round your neck .  I know 
that in loving you she sees and loves her mother at her own 
age ,  sees and loves you at my age ,  loves her mother broken -  
hearted ,  loves you through your dreadful trial and in your 



154 A TALE OF TWO CITIES 

blessed restoration .  I have known this ,  night and day ,  since 
I have known you in your home .  "  

Her father sat silent ,  with his face bent down .  His 
breathing was a little quickened  ;  but he repressed all other 
signs of agitation .  

 "  Dear Doctor Manette ,  always knowing this ,  always 
seeing her and you with this hallowed light about you ,  
I have forborne ,  and forborne ,  as long as it was in the nature 
of man to do it .  I have felt ,  and do even now feel ,  that to 
bring my love — even mine — between you ,  is to touch your 
history with something not quite so good as itself .  But 
I love her .  Heaven is my witness that I love her  !   "  

 "  I believe it ,  "  answered her father ,  mournfully .   "  I have 
thought so before now .  I believe it .  "  

 " But ,  do not believe ,  "  said Darnay ,  upon whose ear the 
mournful voice struck with a reproachful sound ,   "  that if 
my fortune were so cast as that ,  being one day so happ3 r as 
to make her my wife ,  I must at any time put any separation 
between her and you ,  I could or would breathe a word of 
what I now say .  Besides that I should know it to be hope -  
less ,  I should know it to be a baseness .  If I had any such 
possibility ,  even at a remote distance of years ,  harboured in 
my thoughts ,  and hidden in my heart — if it ever had been 
there — if it ever could be there — I could not now touch this 
honoured hand .  "  

He laid his own upon it as he spoke .  

 "  No ,  dear Doctor Manette .  Like you ,  a voluntary exile 
from France  ;  like you ,  driven from it by its distractions ,  
oppressions ,  and miseries  ;  like you ,  striving to live away 
from it by my own exertions ,  and trusting in a happier 
future  ;  I look only to sharing your fortunes ,  sharing your 
life and home ,  and being faithful to you to the death .  Not 
to divide with Lucie her privilege as your child ,  companion ,  
and friend  ;  but to come in aid of it ,  and bind her closer to 
you ,  if such a thing can be .  "  

His touch still lingered on her fathers hand .  Answering 
the touch for a moment ,  but not coldly ,  her father rested 
his hands upon the arms of his chair ,  and looked up for the 
first time since the beginning of the conference .  A struggle 
was evidently in his face  ;  a struggle with that occasional 
look which had a tendency in it to dark doubt and dread .  

•• You speak so feelingly and so manfully ,  Charles Darnay ,  
that I thank you with all my heart ,  and will open all my 



DAENAY SEEKS A PROMISE 1 55 

heart — or nearly so .  Have you any reason to believe that 
Lucie loves you ?  "  

 " None .  As yet ,  none .  "  

 " Is it the immediate object of this confidence ,  that you 
may at once ascertain that ,  with my knowledge ?  "  

 "  Not even so .  I might not have the hopefulness to do 
it for weeks  ;  I might  ( mistaken or not mistaken )  have that 
hopefulness to - morrow .   "  

  Do you seek any guidance from me ?  "  

 "  I ask none ,  sir .  But I have thought it possible that 
you might have it in your power ,  if you should deem it 
right ,  to give me some .  "  

• Do you seek any promise from me ? "  

 " I do seek that .  "  

 "  What is it ?  "  

 " I well understand that ,  without you ,  I could have no 
hope .  I well understand that ,  even if Miss Manette held 
me at this moment in her innocent heart — do not think 
I have the presumption to assume so much — I could retain 
no place in it against her love for her father .  "  

 "  If that be so ,  do you see what ,  on the other hand ,  is 
involved in it ?  "  

• I understand equally well ,  that a word from her father 
in any suitors favour ,  would outweigh herself and all the 
world .  For which reason ,  Doctor Manette ,  "  said Darnay ,  
modestly but firmly ,   " I would not ask that word ,  to save 
my life .  "  

  I am sure of it .  Charles Darnay ,  mysteries arise out of 
close love ,  as well as out of wide division  ;  in the former 
case ,  they are subtle and delicate ,  and difficult to penetrate .  
My daughter Lucie is ,  in this one respect ,  such a mystery to 
me  ;  I can make no guess at the state of her heart .  "  

 "  May I ask ,  sir ,  if you think she is  "  As he hesitated ,  

her father supplied the rest .  

 "  Is sought by any other suitor ?  "  
 " It is what I meant to say .  "  

Her father considered a little before he answered : 
 "  You have seen Mr .  Carton here ,  yourself .  Mr .  Stryver 
is here too ,  occasionally .  If it be at all ,  it can only be by 
one of these .  "  

 "  Or both ,  "  said Darnay .  

 "  I had not thought of both  ;  I should not think either ,  
likely .  You want a promise from me .  Tell me what it is .  "  



156 A TALE OF TWO CITIES 

 "  It is ,  that if Miss Manette should bring to you at any 
time ,  on her own part ,  such a confidence as I have ventured 
to lay before you ,  you will bear testimony to what I have 
said ,  and to your belief in it .  I hope you may be able to 
think so well of me ,  as to urge no influence against me .  
I say nothing more of my stake in this  ;  this is what I ask .  
The condition on which I ask it ,  and which you have an 
undoubted right to require ,  I will observe immediately .  "  

 "  I give the promise ,  "  said the Doctor ,   "  without any 
condition .  I believe your object to be ,  purely and truth -  
fully ,  as you have stated it .  I believe your intention is to 
perpetuate ,  and not to weaken ,  the ties between me and 
my other and far dearer self .  If she should ever tell 
me that you are essential to her perfect happiness ,  I will 
give her to you .  If there were — Charles Darnay ,  if there 
were  "  

The young man had taken his hand gratefully  ;  their 
hands were joined as the Doctor spoke: 

 "  — any fancies ,  any reasons ,  any apprehensions ,  anything 
whatsoever ,  new or old ,  against the man she really loved — 
the direct responsibility thereof not lying on his head — they 
should all be obliterated for her sake .  She is everything to 
me  ;  more to me than suffering ,  more to me than wrong ,  
more to me Well  !  This is idle talk .  "  

So strange was the way in which he faded into silence ,  
and so strange his fixed look when he had ceased to speak ,  
that Darnay felt his own hand turn cold in the hand that 
slowly released and dropped it .  

 "  You said something to me ,  "  said Doctor Manette ,  break -  
ing into a smile .    What was it you said to me ?  "  

He was at a loss how to answer ,  until he remembered 
having spoken of a condition .  Eelieved as his mind re -  
verted to that ,  he answered : 

 "  Your confidence in me ought to be returned with full 
confidence on my part .  My present name ,  though but 
slightly changed from my mothers ,  is not ,  as you will 
remember ,  my own .  I wish to tell you what that is .  and 
why I am in England .  "  

 "  Stop  !   "  said the Doctor of Beauvais .  

 "  I wish it ,  that I may the better deserve your confidence ,  
and have no secret from you .  "  

 "  Stop  !   "  

For an instant ,  the Doctor even had his two hands at his 



DOCTOR MANETTES BLESSING 157 

ears  ;  for another instant ,  even had his two hands laid on 
Darnays lips .  

 " Tell me when I ask you ,  not now .  If your suit should 
prosper ,  if Lucie should love you ,  you shall tell me on your 
marriage morning .  Do you promise ?  "  

 " Willingly .  "  

 " Give me your hand .  She will be home directly ,  and it 
is better she should not see us together to - night .  Go  !  God 
bless you  !   "  

It was dark when Charles Darnay left him ,  and it was an 
hour later and darker when Lucie came home  ;  she hurried 
into the room alone— for Miss Pross had gone straight up -  
stairs—and was surprised to find his reading - chair empty .  

 "  My father  !   "  she called to him .   " Father dear  !   "  

Nothing was said in answer ,  but she heard a low hammer -  
ing sound in his bedroom .  Passing lightly across the inter -  
mediate room ,  she looked in at his door and came running 
back frightened ,  crying to herself ,  with her blood all chilled ,  
 "  What shall I do  !  What shall I do  !   "  

Her uncertainty lasted but a moment  ;  she hurried back ,  
and tapped at his door ,  and softly called to him .  The noise 
ceased at the sound of her voice ,  and he presently came out 
to her ,  and they walked up and down together for a long 
time .  

She came down from her bed ,  to look at him in his sleep 
that night .  He slept heavily ,  and his tray of shoemaking 
tools ,  and his old unfinished work ,  were all as usual .  



CHAPTER XI 

A COMPANION PICTURE 

 "  Sydney ,  "  said Mr .  Stryver ,  on that self - same night ,  or 
morning ,  to his jackal ;   " mix another bowl of punch ;  
I have something to say to you .  "  

Sydney had been working double tides that night ,  and 
the night before ,  and the night before that ,  and a good 
many nights in succession ,  making a grand clearance among 
Mr .  Stryvers papers before the setting in of the long vaca -  
tion .  The clearance was effected at last  ;  the Stryver arrears 
were handsomely fetched up  ;  everything was got rid of 
until November should come with its fogs atmospheric and 
fogs legal ,  and bring grist to the mill again .  

Sydney was none the livelier and none the soberer for so 
much application .  It had taken a deal of extra wet - towel -  
ling to pull him through the night  ;  a correspondingly extra 
quantity of wine had preceded the towelling  ;  and he was in 
a veiy damaged condition ,  as he now pulled his turban off 
and threw it into the basin in which he had steeped it at 
intervals for the last six hours .  

  Are you mixing that other bowl of punch ?  "  said 
Stryver the portly ,  with his hands in his waistband ,  glancing 
round from the sofa where he lay on his back .  

 " lam .  "  

 "  Now ,  look here  !  I am going to tell you something 
that will rather surprise you ,  and that perhaps will make 
you think me not quite as shrewd as you usually do think 
me .  I intend to many .  "  

 " Do you? "  

 "  Yes .  And not for money .  What do you say now ?  "  

 " I dont feel disposed to say much .  Who is she? "  

 " Guess .  "  

 " Do I know her? "  

 " Guess .  "  

 "  I am not going to guess ,  at five oclock in the morning .  






MR .  STRYVER INTENDS TO MARRY 1 59 

with my brains frying and sputtering in my head .  If you 
want me to guess ,  you must ask me to dinner .  "  

 " Well then .  Ill tell you , * said Stryver ,  coming slowly 
into a sitting posture .   "  Sydney ,  I rather despair of making 
myself intelligible to you ,  because you are such an in -  
sensible dog .  "  

 " And you ,  "  returned Sydney ,  busy concocting the punch ,  
 " are such a sensitive and poetical spirit .  "  

 " Come  !   "  rejoined Stryver ,  laughing boastfully ,   " though 
I dont prefer any claim to being the soul of Eomance  ( for 
I hope I know better )  ,  still I am a tenderer sort of fellow 
than you .  "  

 " You are a luckier ,  if you mean that .  "  

 " I dont mean that .  I mean I am a man of more -  
more —  "  

 "  Say gallantry ,  while you are about it ,  "  suggested Carton .  

 "  Well  !  Ill say gallantly .  My meaning is that I am 
a man ,  "  said Stryver ,  inflating himself at his friend as he 
made the punch ,   " who cares more to be agreeable ,  who 
takes more pains to be agreeable ,  who knows better how to 
be agreeable ,  in a womans society ,  than you do .  "  

 " Go on ,  "  said Sydney Carton .  

 "  No  ;  but before I go on ,  "  said Stryver ,  shaking his head 
in his bullying way ,   " Ill have this out with you .  Youve 
been at Dr .  Manettes house as much as I have ,  or more 
than I have .  Why ,  I have been ashamed of your morose -  
ness there  !  Your manners have been of that silent and 
sullen and hang - dog kind ,  that ,  upon my life and soul ,  
I have been ashamed of you ,  Sydney  !   "  

 " It should be very beneficial to a man in your practice 
at the bar ,  to be ashamed of anything ,  "  returned Sydney  ;  
 " you ought to be much obliged to me .  "  

 " You shall not get off in that way ,  "  rejoined Stryver ,  
shouldering the rejoinder at him ;   " no ,  Sydney ,  its my 
duty to tell you— and I tell you to your face to do you 
good — that you are a de - vilish ill - conditioned fellow in that 
sort of society .  You are a disagreeable fellow .  "  

Sydney drank a bumper of the punch he had made ,  and 
laughed .  

 "  Look at me  !   "  said Stryver ,  squaring himself  ;   "  I have 
less need to make myself agreeable than you have ,  being 
more independent in circumstances .  Why do I do it ?  "  

 "  I never saw you do it yet ,  "  muttered Carton .  



l6o A TALE OF TWO CITIES 

 "  I do it because its politic  ;  I do it on principle .  And 
look at me  !  I get on .   "  

 "  You dont get on with your account of your matrimonial 
intentions ,  "  answered Carton ,  with a careless air ;   " I wish 
you would keep to that .  As to me — will you never under -  
stand that I am incorrigible ?  "  

He asked the question with some appearance of scorn .  

 " You have no business to be incorrigible ,  "  was his 
friends answer ,  delivered in no very soothing tone .  

 " I have no business to be ,  at all ,  that I know of ,  "  said 
Sydney Carton .   "  Who is the lady ?  "  

 " Now ,  dont let my announcement of the name make 
you uncomfortable ,  Sydney ,  "  said Mr .  Stryver ,  preparing 
him with ostentatious friendliness for the disclosure he was 
about to make ,   " because I know you dont mean half you 
say  ;  and if you meant it all ,  it would be of no importance .  
I make this little preface ,  because you once mentioned the 
young lady to me in slighting terms .  

 "  I did ?  "  

 " Certainly ;  and in these chambers .  "  

Sydney Carton looked at his punch and looked at his 
complacent friend  ;  drank his punch and looked at his com -  
placent friend .  

 "  You made mention of the young lady as a golden - haired 
doll .  The young lady is Miss Manette .  If you had been 
a fellow of any sensitiveness or delicacy of feeling in that 
kind of way ,  Sydney ,  I might have been a little resentful of 
your employing such a designation  ;  but you are not .  You 
want that sense altogether  ;  therefore I am no more annoyed 
when I think of the expression ,  than I should be annoyed 
by a mans opinion of a picture of mine ,  who had no eye for 
pictures : or of a piece of music of mine ,  who had no ear 
for music .  "  

Sydney Carton drank the punch at a great rate  ;  drank it 
by bumpers ,  looking at his friend .  

 "  Now you know all about it ,  Syd ,  "  said Mr .  Stryver .  
 "  I dont care about fortune : she is a charming creature ,  
and I have made up my mind to please myself: on the 
whole ,  I think I can afford to please myself .  She wilJ 
have in me a man already pretty well off ,  and a rapidly 
rising man ,  and a man of some distinction : it is a piece 
of good fortune for her ,  but she is worthy of good fortune .  
Are vou astonished? "  



SYDNEY CARTONS PROSPECTS l6l 

Carton ,  still drinking the punch ,  rejoined ,   "  Why should 
I be astonished ?  "  

 " You approve? "  

Carton ,  still drinking the punch ,  rejoined ,   " Why should 
I not approve ?  "  

 " Well !  "  said his friend Stryver ,   " you take it more 
easily than I fancied you would ,  and are less mercenary 
on my behalf than I thought you would be  ;  though ,  to 
be sure ,  you know well enough by this time that your 
ancient chum is a man of a pretty strong will .  Yes ,  Sydney ,  
I have had enough of this style of life ,  with no other as 
a change from it  ;  I feel that it is a pleasant thing for a man 
to have a home when he feels inclined to go to it  ( when 
he doesnt ,  he can stay away )  ,  and I feel that Miss Manette 
will tell well in any station ,  and will always do me credit .  
So I have made up my mind .  And now ,  Sydney ,  old boy ,  
I want to say a word to you about your prospects .  You are 
in a bad way ,  you know  ;  you really are in a bad way .  You 
dont know the value of money ,  you live hard ,  youll knock 
up one of these days ,  and be ill and poor  ;  you really ought 
to think about a nurse .  "  

The prosperous patronage with which he said it ,  made 
him look twice as big as he was ,  and four times as offensive .  

 " Now ,  let me recommend you ,  "  pursued Stryver ,   " to 
look it in the face .  I have looked it in the face ,  in my 
different way  ;  look it in the face ,  you ,  in your different 
way .  Marry .  Provide somebody to take care of you .  
Never mind your having no enjoyment of womens society ,  
nor understanding of it ,  nor tact for it .  Find out somebody .  
Find out some respectable woman with a little property -  
somebody in the landlady way ,  or lodging - letting way— and 
marry her ,  against a rainy day .  Thats the kind of thing 
for you .  Now think of it ,  Sydney .  "  

 "  Ill think of it ,  "  said Sydney .  



CHAPTER XII 

THE FELLOW OP DELICACY 

Mr .  Stryver having made up his mind to that magnanimous 
bestowal of good fortune on the Doctors daughter ,  resolved 
to make her happiness known to her before he left town 
for the Long Vacation .  After some mental debating of the 
point ,  he came to the conclusion that it would be as well to 
get all the preliminaries done with ,  and they could then 
arrange at their leisure whether he should give her his hand 
a week or two before Michaelmas Term ,  or in the little 
Christmas vacation between it and Hilary .  

As to the strength of his case ,  he had not a doubt about 
it ,  but clearly saw his way to the verdict .  Argued with the 
jury on substantial worldly grounds — the only grounds ever 
worth taking into account — it was a plain case ,  and had not 
a weak spot in it .  He called himself for the plaintiff ,  there 
was no getting over his evidence ,  the counsel for the defen -  
dant threw up his brief ,  and the jury did not even turn 
to consider .  After trying it ,  Stryver ,  C .  J .  ,  was satisfied 
that no plainer case could be .  

Accordingly ,  Mr .  Stryver inaugurated the Long Vacation 
with a formal proposal to take Miss Manette to Vauxhall 
Gardens  ;  that failing ,  to Ranelagh  ;  that unaccountably 
failing too ,  it behoved him to present himself in Soho ,  and 
there declare his noble mind .  

Towards Soho ,  therefore ,  Mr .  Stryver shouldered his way 
from the Temple ,  while the bloom of the Long Vacations 
infancy was still upon it .  Anybody who had seen him 
projecting himself into Soho while he was yet on Saint 
Dunstans side of Temple Bar ,  bursting in his full - blown 
way along the pavement ,  to the jostlement of all weaker 
people ,  might have seen how safe and strong he was .  

His way taking him past Tellsons .  and he both banking 
at Tellsons and knowing Mr .  Lorry as the intimate friend 
of the Manettes .  it entered Mr .  Stryvers mind to enter the 



MR .  STRYVEE LOOKS IN AT TELLSONs t6o ,  



 .  )  



bank ,  and reveal to Mr .  Lorry the brightness of the Soho 
horizon .  So ,  lie pushed open the door with the weak rattle 
in its throat ,  stumbled down the two steps ,  got past the two 
ancient cashiers ,  and shouldered himself into the musty back 
closet where Mr .  Lorry sat at great books ruled for figures ,  
with perpendicular iron bars to his window as if that were 
ruled for figures too ,  and everything under the clouds were 
a sum .  

•• Halloa  !   "  said Mr .  Stryver .   "  How do you do ? I hope 
you are well  !   "  

It was Stryver s grand peculiarity that he always seemed 
too big for any place ,  or space .  He was so much too big for 
Tellsons ,  that old clerks in distant corners looked up with 
looks of remonstrance ,  as though he squeezed them against 
the wall .  The House itself ,  magnificently reading the paper 
quite in the far - off perspective ,  lowered displeased ,  as if the 
Stryver head had been butted into its responsible waistcoat .  

The discreet Mr .  Lorry said ,  in a sample tone of the voice 
he would recommend under the circumstances ,   "  How do 
you do ,  Mr .  Stryver? How do you do ,  sir? "  and shook 
hands .  There was a peculiarity in his manner of shaking 
hands ,  always to be seen in any clerk at Tellsons who 
shook hands with a customer when the House pervaded 
the air .  He shook in a self - abnegating way ,  as one who 
shook for Tellson and Co .  

 "  Can I do anything for you ,  Mr .  Stryver ?  "  asked 
Mr .  Lorry ,  in his business character .  

 "  Why ,  no ,  thank you  ;  this is a private visit to yourself ,  
Mr .  Lorry  ;  I have come for a private word .  "  

 "  Oh indeed  !   "  said Mr .  Lorry ,  bending down his ear ,  
while his eye strayed to the House afar off .  

 " I am going ,  "  said Mr .  Stryver ,  leaning his arms con -  
fidentially on the desk : whereupon ,  although it was a large 
double one ,  there appeared to be not half desk enough for 
him :  " I am going to make an offer of myself in marriage 
to your agreeable little friend ,  Miss Manette ,  Mr .  Lorry .  "  

 " Oh dear me !  "  cried Mr .  Lorry ,  rubbing his chin ,  and 
looking at his visitor dubiously .  

 "  Oh dear me ,  sir ?  "  repeated Stryver ,  drawing back .  
 "  Oh dear you ,  sir ? What may your meaning be ,  
Mr .  Lorry? "  

 " My meaning ,  "  answered the man of business ,   " is ,  of 
course ,  friendly and appreciative ,  and that it does you the 



164 A TALE OF TWO CITIES 

greatest ci*edit ,  and — in short ,  my meaning is everything 

you could desire .  But -  — really ,  you know ,  Mr .  Stryver  "  

Mr .  Lorry paused ,  and shook his head at him in the oddest 
manner ,  as if he were compelled against his will to add ,  
internally ,   " you know there really is so much too much of 
you  !   "  

 "  Well  !   "  said Stryver ,  slapping the desk with his con -  
tentious hand ,  opening his eyes wider ,  and taking a long 
breath ,   "  if I understand you ,  Mr .  Lorry ,  Ill be hanged  !   "  

Mr .  Lorry adjusted his little wig at both ears as a means 
towards that end ,  and bit the feather of a pen .  

 "  T> — n it all ,  sir !   "  said Stryver ,  staring at him ,   " am I 
not eligible ?  "  

 " Oh dear yes !  Yes .  Oh yes ,  youre eligible !  "  said 
Mr .  Lorry .   "  If you say eligible ,  you are eligible .  "  

 "  Am I not prosperous ?  "  asked Stryver .  

 " Oh !  if you come to prosperous ,  you are prosperous ,  "  
said Mr .  Lorry .  

 "  And advancing ?  "  

 "  If you come to advancing ,  you know ,  "  said Mr .  Lorry ,  
delighted to be able to make another admission ,   "  nobody 
can doubt that .  "  

 " Then what on earth is your meaning ,  Mr .  Lorry? "  
demanded Stryver ,  perceptibly crestfallen .  

 "  Well  !  I Were you going there now ?  "  asked Mr .  

Lorry .  

 "  Straight  !   "  said Stryver ,  with a plump of his fist on the 
desk .  

 " Then I think I wouldnt ,  if I was you .  "  

 "  Why ?  "  said Stryver .   "  Now ,  Ill put you in a corner ,  "  
forensically shaking a forefinger at him .   "  You are a man 
of business and bound to have a reason .  State your reason .  
Why wouldnt you go ?  "  

 " Because ,  "  said Mr .  Lorry ,   " I wouldnt go on such an 
object without having some cause to believe that I should 
succeed .  "  

 "  D — n me  !   "  cried Stryver ,   "  but this beats everything .  "  

Mr .  Lorry glanced at the distant House ,  and glanced at 
the angry Stryver .  

 " Heres a man of business— a man of years — a man of 
experience — in a Bank ,  "  said Stryver  ;   " and having summed 
up three leading reasons for complete success ,  he says theres 
no reason at all  !  Says it with his head on  !   "  Mr .  Stryver 



MK .  STRYVEK CHECKED 1 67 

remarked upon the peculiarity as if it would have been in -  
finitely less remarkable if he had said it with his head off .  

 "  When I speak of success ,  I speak of success with the 
young lady  ;  and when I speak of causes and reasons to 
make success probable ,  I speak of causes and reasons that 
will tell as such with the young lady .  The young lady ,  my 
good sir ,  "  said Mr .  Lorry ,  mildly tapping the Stryver arm ,  
 "  the young lady .  The young lady goes before all .  "  

 " Then you mean to tell me ,  Mr .  Lorry ,  "  said Stryver ,  
squaring his elbows ,   " that it is your deliberate opinion that 
the young lady at present in question is a mincing Fool ?  "  

 " Not exactly so .  I mean to tell you ,  Mr .  Stryver ,  "  said 
Mr .  Lorry ,  reddening ,   "  that I will hear no disrespectful 
word of that young lady from any lips  ;  and that if I knew 
any man — which I hope I do not — whose taste was so coarse ,  
and whose temper was so overbeai - ing ,  that he could not 
restrain himself from speaking disrespectfully of that young 
lady at this desk ,  not even Tellsoivs should prevent my 
giving him a piece of my mind .  "  

The necessity of being angry in a suppressed tone had 
put Mr .  Stryver s blood - vessels into a dangerous state when 
it was his turn to be angry  ;  Mr .  Lorrys veins ,  methodical 
as their courses could usually be ,  were in no better state 
now it was his turn .  

 "  That is what I mean to tell you ,  sir ,  "  said Mr .  Lorry .  
 " Pray let there be no mistake about it .  "  

Mr .  Stryver sucked the end of a ruler for a little while ,  
and then stood hitting a tune out of his teeth with it ,  which 
probably gave him the toothache .  He broke the awkward 
silence by saying : 

 " This is something new to me ,  Mr .  Lorry .  You de -  
liberately advise me not to go up to Soho and offer myself — 
myself ,  Stryver of the Kings Bench bar ?  "  

 " Do you ask me for my advice ,  Mr .  Stryver? "  

 " Yes ,  I do .  "  

 "  Very good .  Then I give it ,  and you have repeated it 
correctly .  "  

 "  And all I can say of it is ,  "  laughed Stryver with a vexed 
laugh ,   "  that this — ha ,  ha  !  — beats everything past ,  present ,  
and to come .  "  

 "  Now understand me ,  "  pursued Mr .  Lorry .   "  As a man 
of business ,  I am not justified in saying anything about this 
matter ,  for ,  as a man of business ,  I know nothing of it .  



1 68 A TALE OF TWO CITIES 

But ,  as an old fellow ,  who has carried Miss Manette in his 
arms ,  who is the trusted friend of Miss Manette and of her 
father too ,  and who has a great affection for them both ,  
I have spoken .  The confidence is not of my seeking ,  recollect .  
Now ,  you think I may not be right ?  "  

 "  Not I  !   "  said Stryver ,  whistling .   "  I cant undertake to 
find third parties in common sense  ;  I can only find it for 
myself .  I suppose sense in certain quarters  ;  you suppose 
mincing bread - and - butter nonsense .  Its new to me ,  but 
you are right ,  I dare say .  "  

 "  What I suppose ,  Mr .  Stryver ,  I claim to characterise for 
myself .  And understand me ,  sir ,  "  said Mr .  Lorry ,  quickly 
flushing again ,   "  I will not — not even at Tellsons— have it 
characterised for me by any gentleman breathing .  "  

 "  There  !  I beg your pardon  !   "  said Stryver .  

 "  Granted .  Thank you .  Well ,  Mr .  Stryver ,  I was about 
to say : — it might be painful to you to find yourself mistaken ,  
it might be painful to Doctor Manette to have the task of 
being explicit with you ,  it might be very painful to Miss 
Manette to have the task of being explicit with you .  You 
know the terms upon which I have the honour and happiness 
to stand with the family .  If you please ,  committing you in 
no way ,  representing you in no way ,  I will undertake to 
correct my advice by the exercise of a little new observation 
and judgment expressly brought to bear upon it .  If you 
should then be dissatisfied with it ,  you can but test its 
soundness for yourself ;  if ,  on the other hand ,  you should 
be satisfied with it ,  and it should be what it now is ,  it may 
spare all sides what is best spared .  What do you say? "  

 "  How long would you keep me in town ?  "  

 " Oh  !  It is only a question of a few hours .  I could go 
to Soho in the evening ,  and come to your chambers after -  
wards .  "  

 "  Then I say yes ,  "  said Stryver :  "  I wont go up there 
now .  I am not so hot upon it as that comes to  ;  I say yes ,  
and I shall expect you to look in to - night .  Good - morning .   

Then Mr .  Stryver turned and burst out of the Bank ,  
causing such a concussion of air on his passage through ,  that 
to stand up against it bowing behind the two counters ,  
required the utmost remaining strength of the two ancient 
clerks .  Those venerable and feeble persons were always seen 
by the public in the act of bowing ,  and were popularly 
believed ,  when they had bowed a customer out ,  still to keep 



ME .  STRYVER LEAVES THE BANK l6g 

on bowing in the empty office until they bowed another 
customer in .  

The barrister was keen enough to divine that the banker 
would not have gone so far in his expression of opinion on 
any less solid ground than moral certainty .  Unprepared as 
he was for the large pill he had to swallow ,  he got it down .  
 "  And now ,  "  said Mr .  Stryver ,  shaking his forensic forefinger 
at the Temple in general ,  when it was down ,   "  my way out 
of this ,  is ,  to put you all in the wrong .  "  

It was a bit of the art of an Old Bailey tactician ,  in which 
he found great relief .   "  You shall not put me in the wrong ,  
young lady ,  "  said Mr .  Stryver  ;   "  1*11 do that for you .  "  

Accordingly ,  when Mr .  Lorry called that night as late as 
ten oclock ,  Mr .  Stryver ,  among a quantity of books and 
papers littered out for the purpose ,  seemed to have nothing 
less on his mind than the subject of the morning .  He even 
showed surprise when he saw Mr .  Lorry ,  and was altogether 
in an absent and preoccupied state .  

 " Well !  "  said that good - natured emissary ,  after a full 
half - hour of bootless attempts to bring him round to the 
question .   "  I have been to Soho .  "  

 " To Soho? "  repeated Mr .  Stryver ,  coldly .   " Oh ,  to be 
sure  !  What am I thinking of  !   "  

 " And I have no doubt ,  "  said Mr .  Lorry ,   " that I was 
right in the conversation we had .  My opinion is confirmed ,  
and I reiterate my advice .  "  

 " I assure you ,  "  returned Mr .  Stryver .  in the friendliest 
way ,   "  that I am sorry for it on your account ,  and sorry for 
it on the poor fathers account .  I know this must always 
be a sore subject with the family  ;  let us say no more 
about it .  "  

• I dont understand you ,  "  said Mr .  Lorry .  

* I dare say not ,  "  rejoined Stryver ,  nodding his head in 
a smoothing and final way  ;   "  no matter ,  no matter .  "  

 "  But it does matter ,  "  Mr .  Lorry urged .  

 "  No it doesnt  ;  I assure you it doesnt .  Having sup -  
posed that there was sense where there is no sense ,  and 
a laudable ambition where there is not a laudable ambition ,  
I am well out of my mistake ,  and no harm is done .  Young 
women have committed similar follies often before ,  and have 
repented them in poverty and obscurity often before .  In an 
unselfish aspect ,  I am sorry that the thing is dropped ,  be -  
cause it would have been a bad thing for me in a worldly 
i .  j 3 



I70 A TALE OF TWO CITIES 

point of view  ;  in a selfish aspect ,  I am glad that the thing 
has dropped ,  because it would have been a bad thing for me 
in a worldly point of view — it is hardly necessary to say 
I could have gained nothing by it .  There is no harm at all 
done .  I have not proposed to the young lady ,  and .  between 
ourselves ,  I am by no means certain ,  on reflection ,  that 
I ever should have committed myself to that extent .  
Mr .  Lorry ,  you cannot control the mincing vanities and 
giddinesses of empty - headed girls  ;  you must not expect to 
do it ,  or you will always be disappointed .  Now ,  pray say 
no more about it .  I tell you ,  I regret it on account of 
others ,  but I am satisfied on my own account .  And I am 
really very much obliged to you for allowing me to sound 
you ,  and for giving me your advice  ;  you know the young 
lady better than I do  ;  you were right ,  it never would have 
done .  "  

Mr .  Lorry was so taken aback ,  that he looked quite 
stupidly at Mr .  Stryver shouldering him towards the door ,  
with an appearance of showering generosity ,  forbearance ,  
and good - will ,  on his erring head .   "  Make the best of it ,  
my dear sir ,  "  said Stryver  ;   "  say no more about it  ;  thank 
you again for allowing me to sound you  ;  good - night  !   "  

Mr .  Lorry was out in the night ,  before he knew where he 
was .  Mr .  Stryver was lying back on his sofa ,  winking at 
his ceiling .  



CHAPTER XIII 

THE FELLOW OF NO DELICACY 

If Sydney Carton ever shone anywhere ,  he certainly never 
shone in the house of Doctor Manette .  He had been there 
often ,  during a whole year ,  and had always been the same 
moody and morose lounger there .  When he cared to talk ,  
he talked well  ;  but ,  the cloud of caring for nothing ,  which 
overshadowed him with such a fatal darkness ,  was very 
rarely pierced by the light within him .  

And yet he did care something for the streets that en -  
vironed that house ,  and for the senseless stones that made 
their pavements .  Many a night he vaguely and unhappily 
wandered there ,  when wine had brought no transitory glad -  
ness to him  ;  many a dreary daybreak revealed his solitary 
figure lingering there ,  and still lingering there when the 
first beams of the sun brought into strong relief ,  removed 
beauties of architecture in spires of churches and lofty 
buildings ,  as perhaps the quiet time brought some sense of 
better things ,  else forgotten and unattainable ,  into his mind .  
Of late ,  the neglected bed in the Temple Court had known 
him more scantily than ever  ;  and often when he had thrown 
himself upon it no longer than a few minutes ,  he had got 
up again ,  and haunted that neighbourhood .  

On a day in August ,  when Mr .  Stryver  ( after notifying to 
his jackal that  "  he had thought better of that marrying 
matter  "  )  had carried his delicacy into Devonshire ,  and when 
the sight and scent of flowers in the City streets had some 
waifs of goodness in them for the worst ,  of health for the 
sickliest ,  and of youth for the oldest ,  Sydneys feet still trod 
those stones .  From being irresolute and purposeless ,  his 
feet became animated by an intention ,  and ,  in the working 
out of that intention ,  they took him to the Doctors door .  

He was shown up - stairs ,  and found Lucie at her work ,  
alone .  She had never been cmite at her ease with him ,  and 
received him with some little embarrassment as he seated 



I72 A TALE OF TWO CITIES 

himself near her table .  Bui ,  looking up at his face in the 
interchange of the first few common - places ,  she observed 
a change in it .  

 "  I fear you are not well .  Mr .  Carton  !   "  

 " No .  But the life I lead .  Miss Manette ,  is not conducive 
to health .  What is to be expected of ,  or by ,  such profli -  
gates ?  "  

 " Is it not — forgive me  ;  I have begun the question on 
my lips — a pity to live no better life ?  "  

  God knows it is a shame  !   "  

 "  Then why not change it ?  "  

Looking gently at him again ,  she was surprised and 
saddened to see that there were tears in his eyes .  There 
were tears in his voice too ,  as he answered : 

 " It is too late for that .  I shall never be better than 
I am .  I shall sink lower ,  and be worse .  "  

He leaned an elbow on her table ,  and covered his eyes 
with his hand .  The table trembled in the silence that 
followed .  

She had never seen him softened ,  and was much dis -  
tressed .  He knew her to be so ,  without looking at her .  
and said : 

 "  Pray forgive me ,  Miss Manette .  I break down before 
the knowledge of what I want to say to you .  Will you 
hear me ?  "  

 " If it will do you any good ,  Mr .  Carton ,  if it would make 
you happier ,  it would make me very glad  !   "  

 "  God bless you for your sweet compassion  !   "  

He unshaded his face after a little while ,  and spoke 
steadily .  

 "  Dont be afraid to hear me .  Dont shrink from any -  
thing I say .  I am like one who died young .  All my life 
might have been .  "  

 "  No ,  Mr .  Carton .  1 am sure that the best part of it 
might still be  ;  I am sure that you might be much ,  much 
worthier of yourself .  "  

 "  Say of you ,  Miss Manette ,  and although I know better — 
although in the mystery of my own wretched heart I know 
better —I shall never forget it  !   "  

She was pale and trembling .  He came to her relief with 
a fixed despair of himself which made the interview unlike 
any other that could have been holden .  

• If it had been possible ,  Miss Manette .  that you could 



SYDNEY CARTONS CONFIDENCE TO LUCIE T 73 

have returned the love of the man you see before you — self -  
flung away ,  wasted ,  drunken ,  poor creature of misuse as you 
know him to be — he would have been conscious this day and 
hour ,  in spite of his happiness ,  that he would bring you to 
misery ,  bring you to sorrow and repentance ,  blight you ,  
disgrace you ,  pull you down with him .  I know very well 
that you can have no tenderness for me  ;  I ask for none  ;  
I am even thankful that it cannot be .  "  

Without it ,  can I not save you ,  Mr .  Carton? Can I not 
recall you — forgive me again  !  — to a better course ? Can 
I in no way repay your confidence ? I know this is a 
confidence ,  "  she modestly said ,  after a little hesitation ,  
and in earnest tears ,   "  I know you would say this to no 
one else .  Can I turn it to no good account for yourself ,  
Mr .  Carton ?  "  

He shook his head .  

 "  To none .  No ,  Miss Manette ,  to none .  If you will hear 
me through a very little more ,  all you can ever do for me is 
done .  I wish you to know that you have been the last 
dream of my soul .  In my degradation I have not been so 
degraded but that the sight of you with your father ,  and of 
this home made such a home by you ,  has stirred old shadows 
that I thought had died out of me .  Since I knew you ,  
I have been troubled by a remorse that I thought would 
never reproach me again ,  and have heard whispers from old 
voices impelling me upward ,  that I thought were silent for 
ever .  I have had unformed ideas of striving afresh ,  begin -  
ning anew ,  shaking off sloth and sensuality ,  and fighting 
out the abandoned fight .  A dream ,  all a dream ,  that ends 
in nothing ,  and leaves the sleeper where he lay down ,  but 
I wish you to know that you inspired it .  "  

 " Will nothing of it remain ? Mr .  Carton ,  think again  !  
Try again  !   "  

 No ,  Miss Manette  ;  all through it ,  I have known myself 
to be quite undeserving .  And yet I have had the weakness ,  
and have still the weakness ,  to wish you to know with what 
a sudden mastery you kindled me ,  heap of ashes that I am ,  
into fire — a fire ,  however ,  inseparable in its nature from 
myself ,  cpiickening nothing ,  lighting nothing ,  doing no 
seiwice ,  idly burning away .  "  

 "  Since it is my misfortune ,  Mr .  Carton ,  to have made 
you more unhappy than you were before you knew me  "  

 " Dont say that ,  Miss Manette ,  for you would have re -  



174 A TALE OF TWO CITIES 

claimed me ,  if anything could .  You will not be the cause 
of my becoming worse .  "  

 "  Since the state of your mind that you describe ,  is ,  at all 
events ,  attributable to some influence of mine — this is what 
I mean ,  if I can make it plain — can I use no influence to 
serve you ? Have I no power for good ,  with you ,  at all ?  "  

 " The utmost good that I am capable of now ,  Miss 
Manette ,  I have come here to realise .  Let me carry through 
the rest of my misdirected life ,  the remembrance that 
I opened my heart to you ,  last of all the world  ;  and that 
there was something left in me at this time which you could 
deplore and pity .  "  

 " Which I entreated you to believe ,  again and again ,  most 
fervently ,  with all my heart ,  was capable of better things ,  
Mr .  Carton  !   "  

 "  Entreat me to believe it no more ,  Miss Manette .  I have 
proved myself ,  and I know better .  I distress you  ;  I draw 
fast to an end .  Will you let me believe ,  when I recall this 
day ,  that the last confidence of my life was reposed in your 
pure and innocent breast ,  and that it lies there alone ,  and 
will be shared by no one ?  "  

 "  If that will be a consolation to you ,  yes .  "  

 "  Not even by the dearest one ever to be known to you ?  "  

 " Mr .  Carton ,  "  she answered ,  after an agitated pause ,   "  the 
secret is yours ,  not mine  ;  and I promise to respect it .  "  

 " Thank you .  And again ,  God bless you .  "  

He put her hand to his lips ,  and moved towards the door .  

 "  Be under no apprehension ,  Miss Manette ,  of my ever 
resuming this conversation by so much as a passing word .  
I will never refer to it again .  If I were dead ,  that could 
not be surer than it is henceforth .  In the hour of my death ,  
I shall hold sacred the one good remembrance — and shall 
thank and bless you for it — that my last avowal of myself 
was made to you ,  and that my name ,  and faults ,  and 
miseries were gently carried in your heart .  May it other -  
wise be light and happy  !   "  

He was so unlike what he had ever shown himself to be ,  
and it was so sad to think how much he had thrown away ,  
and how much he every day kept down and perverted ,  that 
Lucie Manette wept mournfully for him as he stood looking 
back at her .  

 "  Be comforted  !   "  he said ,   "  I am not worth such feeling ,  
Miss Manette .  An hour or two hence ,  and the low com -  



A LAST SUPPLICATION 175 

panions and low habits that I scorn but yield to ,  will render 
me less worth such tears as those ,  than any wretch who 
creeps along the streets .  Be comforted  !  But ,  within 
myself ,  I shall always be ,  towards you ,  what I am now ,  
though outwardly I shall be what you have heretofore seen 
me .  The last supplication but one I make to you ,  is ,  that 
you will believe this of me .  "  

 " I will ,  Mr .  Carton .  "  

 " My last supplication of all ,  is this ;  and with it ,  I will 
relieve you of a visitor with whom I well know you have 
nothing in unison ,  and between whom and you there is an 
impassable space .  It is useless to say it ,  I know ,  but it 
rises out of my soul .  For you ,  and for any dear to you ,  
I would do anything .  If my career were of that better kind 
that there was any opportunity or capacity of sacrifice in it ,  
I would embrace any sacrifice for you and for those dear to 
you .  Try to hold me in your mind ,  at some quiet times ,  as 
ardent and sincere in this one thing .  The time will come ,  
the time will not be long in coming ,  when new ties will be 
formed about you — ties that will bind you yet more tenderly 
and strongly to the home you so adorn — the dearest ties 
that will ever grace and gladden you .  Miss Manette ,  
when the little picture of a happy fathers face looks up in 
yours ,  when you see your own bright beauty springing up 
anew at your feet ,  think now and then that there is a man 
who would give his life ,  to keep a life you love beside you  !   "  

He said ,   "  Farewell  !   "  said a last  "  God bless you  !   "  and 
left her .  



CHAPTER XIV 

THE HONEST TRADESMAN 

To the eyes of Mr .  Jeiemiah Cruncher ,  sitting on his stool 
in Fleet Street with his grisly urchin heside him ,  a vast 
number and variety of objects in movement were every day 
presented .  Who could sit upon anything in Fleet Street 
during the busy hours of the day ,  and not be dazed and 
deafened by two immense processions ,  one ever tending 
westward with the sun ,  the other ever tending eastward 
from the sun ,  both ever tending to the plains beyond the 
range of red and purple where the sun goes down  !  

With his straw in his mouth ,  Mr .  Cruncher sat watching 
the two streams ,  like the heathen rustic who has for several 
centuries been on duty watching one stream — saving that 
Jerry had no expectation of their ever running dry .  Nor 
would it have been an expectation of a hopeful kind ,  since 
a small part of his income was derived from the pilotage of 
timid women  ( mostly of a full habit and past the middle 
term of life )  from Tellsons side of the tides to the opposite 
shore .  Brief as such companionship was in every separate 
instance ,  Mi \  Cruncher never failed to become so interested 
in the lady as to express a strong desire to have the honour 
of drinking her very good health .  And it was from the 
gifts bestowed upon him towards the execution of this 
benevolent purpose ,  that he recruited his finances ,  as just 
now observed .  

Time was ,  when a poet sat upon a stool in a public place ,  
and mused in the sight of men .  Mr .  Cruncher ,  sitting on 
a stool in a public place ,  but not being a poet ,  mused as 
little as possible ,  and looked about him .  

It fell out that he was thus engaged in a season when 
crowds were few ,  and belated women few ,  and when his 
affairs in general were so unprosperous as to awaken a strong 
suspicion in his breast that Mrs .  Cruncher must have been 
 " flopping "  in some pointed manner ,  when an unusual con -  



CRUNCHER AND SON 177 

course pouring clown Fleet Street westward ,  attracted his 
attention .  Looking that way ,  Mr .  Cruncher made out that 
some kind of funeral was coming along ,  and that there was 
popular objection to this funeral ,  which engendered uproar .  

 " Young Jerry ,  "  said Mr .  Cruncher ,  turning to his offspring ,  
 "  its a buryin .  "  

 "  Hooroar ,  father  !   "  cried Young Jeny .  

The young gentleman uttered this exultant sound with 
mysterious significance .  The elder gentleman took the cry 
so ill ,  that he watched his opportunity ,  and smote the young -  
gentleman on the ear .  

 " What dye mean? What are you hooroaring at? 
What do you want to conwey to your own father ,  you young 
Rip ? This boy is a getting too many for me  !   "  said 
Mr .  Cruncher ,  surveying him .   "  Him and his hooroars  !  
Dont let me hear no more of you ,  or you shall feel some 
more of me .  Dye hear ?  "  

 " I warnt doing no harm ,  "  Young Jerry protested ,  
rubbing his cheek .  

 "  Drop it then ,  "  said Mr .  Cruncher  ;   "  I wont have none 
of your no harms .  Get atop of that there seat ,  and look 
at the crowd .  "  

His son obeyed ,  and the crowd approached  ;  they were 
bawling and hissing round a dingy hearse and dingy mourn -  
ing coach ,  in which mourning coach there was only one 
mourner ,  dressed in the dingy trappings that were con -  
sidered essential to the dignity of the position .  The position 
appeared by no means to please him ,  however ,  with an 
increasing rabble surrounding the coach ,  deriding him ,  
making grimaces at him ,  and incessantly groaning and 
calling out :  "  Yah  !  Spies  !  Tst  !  Yaha  !  Spies  !   "  with many 
compliments too numerous and forcible to repeat .  

Funerals had at all times a remarkable attraction for 
Mr .  Cruncher  ;  he always pricked up his senses ,  and became 
excited ,  when a funeral passed Tellsons .  Naturally ,  there -  
fore ,  a funeral with this uncommon attendance excited him 
greatly ,  and he asked of the first man who ran against him : 

 "  What is it ,  brother ? Whats it about ?  "  

 " 7 dont know ,  "  said the man .   " Spies !  Yaha !  Tst !  
Spies  !   "  

He asked another man .   "  Who is it ?  "  

 "  / dont know ,  "  returned the man .  clapping his hands to 
his mouth nevertheless ,  and vociferating in a surprising heat 



T78 A TALE OF TWO CITIES 

and with the greatest ardour ,   " Spies !  Yaha  !  Tst ,  tst  !  
Spi - ies  !   "  

At length ,  a person better informed on the merits of the 
ease ,  tumbled against him ,  and from this person he learned 
that the funeral was the funeral of one Roger Cly .  

 "  Was He a spy ?  "  asked Mr .  Cruncher .  

 "  Old Bailey spy ,  "  returned his informant .   "  Yaha  !  Tst  !  
Yah  !  Old Bailey Spi - i - ies  !   "  

 "  Why ,  to be sure  !   "  exclaimed Jerry ,  recalling the Trial 
at which he had assisted .   " Ive seen him .  Dead ,  is he? "  

 " Dead as mutton ,  "  returned the other ,   " and cant be too 
dead .  Have em out ,  there  !  Spies  !  Pull em out ,  there  !  
Spies  !   "  

The idea was so acceptable in the prevalent absence of 
any idea ,  that the crowd caught it up with eagerness ,  and 
loudly repeating the suggestion to have em out ,  and to pull 
em out ,  mobbed the two vehicles so closely that they came 
to a stop .  On the crowds opening the coach doors ,  the one 
mourner scuffled out of himself and was in their hands for 
a moment  ;  but he was so alert ,  and made such good use of 
his time ,  that in another moment he was scouring away 
up a by - street ,  after shedding his cloak ,  hat ,  long hatband ,  
white pocket - handkerchief ,  and other symbolical tears .  

These ,  the people tore to pieces and scattered far and 
wide with great enjoyment ,  while the tradesmen hurriedly 
shut up their shops  ;  for a crowd in those times stopped 
at nothing ,  and was a monster much dreaded .  They had 
already got the length of opening the hearse to take the 
coffin out ,  when some brighter genius proposed instead ,  its 
being escorted to its destination amidst general rejoicing .  
Practical suggestions being much needed ,  this suggestion ,  
too ,  was received with acclamation ,  and the coach was im -  
mediately filled with eight inside and a dozen out ,  while as 
many people got on the roof of the hearse as could by any 
exercise of ingenuity stick upon it .  Among the first of these 
volunteers was Jerry Cruncher himself ,  who modestly con -  
cealed his spiky head from the observation of Tellsons ,  in 
the further corner of the mourning coach .  

The officiating undertakers made some protest against 
these changes in the ceremonies  ;  but ,  the river being alarm -  
ingly near ,  and several voices remarking on the eilicacy 
of cold immersion in bringing refractory members of the 
profession to reason ,  the protest was faint and brief .  The 




 ( 4 



05 
H 



MR .  CRUNCHER ATTENDS A FUNERAL ]8l 

remodelled procession started ,  with a chimney - sweep driving 
the hearse — advised by the regular driver ,  who was perched 
beside him ,  under close inspection ,  for the purpose -  — and 
with a pieman ,  also attended by his cabinet minister ,  driving 
the mourning coach .  A bear - leader ,  a popular street character 
of the time ,  was impressed as an additional ornament ,  before 
the cavalcade had gone far down the Strand : and his bear ,  
who was black and very mangy ,  gave quite an Undertaking 
air to that part of the procession in which he walked .  

Thus ,  with beer - drinking ,  pipe - smoking ,  song - roaring ,  and 
infinite caricaturing of woe ,  the disorderly procession went 
its way ,  recruiting at every step ,  and all the shops shutting 
up before it .  Its destination was the old church of Saint 
Pancras ,  far off in the fields .  It got there in course of time  ;  
insisted on pouring into the burial - ground  ;  finally ,  ac -  
complished the interment of the deceased Roger Cly in its 
own way ,  and highly to its own satisfaction .  

The dead man disposed of ,  and the crowd being under the 
necessity of providing some other entertainment for itself ,  
another brighter genius  ( or perhaps the same )  conceived the 
humour of impeaching casual passers - by ,  as Old Bailey spies ,  
and wreaking vengeance on them .  Chase was given to some 
scores of inoffensive persons who had never been near the 
Old Bailey in their lives ,  in the realisation of this fancy ,  
and they were roughly hustled and maltreated .  The transi -  
tion to the sport of window - breaking ,  and thence to the 
plundering of public - houses ,  w r as easy and natural .  At last .  
after several hours ,  when sundry summer - houses had been 
pulled down ,  and some area - railings had been torn up ,  to 
arm the more belligerent spirits ,  a rumour got about that the 
Guards were coming .  Before this rumour ,  the crowd gradually 
melted away ,  and perhaps the Guards came ,  and perhaps 
they never came ,  and this was the usual progress of a mob .  

Mr .  Cruncher did not assist at the closing sports ,  but had 
remained behind in the churchyard ,  to confer and condole 
with the undertakers .  The place had a soothing influence 
on him .  He procured a pipe from a neighbouring public -  
house ,  and smoked it ,  looking in at the railings and maturely 
considering the spot .  

 " Jerry ,  "  said Mr .  Cruncher ,  apostrophising himself in his 
usual way ,   " you see that there Cly that day ,  and you see 
with your own eyes that he was a young un and a straight 
made un .  "  



182 A TALE OF TWO CITIES 

Having smoked his pipe out ,  and ruminated a little 
longer ,  he turned himself about ,  that he might appear ,  
before the hour of closing ,  on his station at Tellsons .  
Whether his meditations on mortality had touched his liver ,  
or whether his general health had been previously at all 
amiss ,  or whether he desired to show a little attention to an 
eminent man ,  is not so much to the purpose ,  as that he 
made a short call upon his medical adviser — a distinguished 
surgeon — on his way back .  

Young Jerry relieved his father with dutiful interest ,  
and reported No job in his absence .  The bank closed ,  the 
ancient clerks came out ,  the usual watch was set ,  and 
Mr .  Cruncher and his son went home to tea .  

 " Now ,  I tell you where it is  !   "  said Mr .  Cruncher to his 
wife ,  on entering .   "  If ,  as a honest tradesman ,  my wenturs 
goes wrong to - night ,  I shall make sure that youve been 
praying again me ,  and I shall work you for it just the same 
as if I seen you do it .  "  

The dejected Mrs .  Cruncher shook her head .  

 " Why ,  youre at it afore my face !  "  said Mr .  Cruncher ,  
with signs of angry apprehension .  

 " I am saying nothing .  "  

 " Well ,  then ;  dont meditate nothing .  You might as 
well flop as meditate .  You may as well go again me one 
way as another .  Drop it altogether .  "  

 " Yes ,  Jerry .  "  

 " Yes ,  Jerry ,  "  repeated Mr .  Cruncher ,  sitting down to tea .  
 " Ah !  It is yes ,  Jerry .  Thats about it .  You may say 
yes ,  Jerry .  "  

Mr .  Cruncher had no particular meaning in these sulky 
corroborations ,  but made use of them ,  as people not un -  
frequently do ,  to express general ironical dissatisfaction .  

 " You and your yes ,  Jerry ,  "  said Mr .  Cruncher ,  taking 
a bite out of his bread - and - butter ,  and seeming to help it 
down with a large invisible oyster out of his saucer .   "  Ah  !  
I think so .  I believe you .  "  

 " You are going out to - night? "  asked his decent wife ,  
when he took another bite .  

 " Yes ,  lam .  "  

 "  May I go with you ,  father V  "  asked his son ,  briskly .  

 " No ,  you maynt .  Im a going — as your mother 
knows — a fishing .  Thats where Im going to .  Going 
a fishing .  "  



MR .  CRUNCHERS FISHING 183 

 " Your fishing - rod gets rayther rusty  ;  dont it ,  father? "  

 " Never you mind .  "  

 " Shall you bring any fish home ,  father? "  

 "  If I dont ,  youll have short commons ,  to - morrow ,  "  
returned that gentleman ,  shaking his head ;   " thats questions 
enough for you  ;  I aint a going out ,  till youve been long 
a - bed .  "  

He devoted himself during the remainder of the evening 
to keeping a most vigilant watch on Mrs .  Cruncher ,  and 
sullenly holding her in conversation that she might be 
prevented from meditating any petitions to his disadvantage .  
With this view ,  he urged his son to hold her in conversation 
also ,  and led the unfortunate woman a hard life by dwelling 
on any causes of complaint he could bring against her ,  
rather than he would leave her for a moment to her own 
reflections .  The devoutest person could have rendered no 
greater homage to the efficacy of an honest prayer than he 
did in this distrust of his wife .  It was as if a professed 
unbeliever in ghosts should be frightened by a ghost story .  

 " And mind you !  "  said Mr .  Cruncher .   " No games to -  
morrow  !  If I ,  as a honest tradesman ,  succeed in providing 
a jinte of meat or two ,  none of your not touching of it ,  and 
sticking to bread .  If I ,  as a honest tradesman ,  am able to 
provide a little beer ,  none of your declaring on water .  When 
you go to Kome ,  do as Eome does .  Kome will be a ugly 
customer to you ,  if you dont .  Im your Eome ,  you know .  "  

Then he began grumbling again : 

 " With your flying into the face of your own wittles and 
drink  !  I dont know how scarce you maynt make the wittles 
and drink here ,  by your flopping tricks and your unfeeling 
conduct .  Look at your boy : he is yourn ,  aint he ? Hes 
as thin as a lath .  Do you call yourself a mother ,  and not 
know that a mothers first duty is to blow her boy out ?  "  

This touched Young Jerry on a tender place  ;  who adjured 
his mother to perform her first duty ,  and ,  whatever else she 
did or neglected ,  above all things to lay especial stress on 
the discharge of that maternal function so affectingly and 
delicately indicated by his other parent .  

Thus the evening wore away with the Cruncher family ,  
until Young Jerry was ordered to bed ,  and his mother ,  laid 
under similar injunctions ,  obeyed them .  Mr .  Cruncher 
beguiled the earlier watches of the night with solitary pipes ,  
and did not start upon his excursion until nearly one oclock .  



184 A TALE OF TWO CITIES 

Towards that small and ghostly hour ,  he rose up from his 
chair ,  took a key out of his pocket ,  opened a locked cup -  
hoard ,  and hrought forth a sack ,  a crowbar of convenient 
size ,  a rope and chain ,  and other fishing tackle of that 
nature .  Disposing these articles about him in skilful manner ,  
he bestowed a parting defiance on Mrs .  Cruncher ,  ex -  
tinguished the light ,  and went out .  

Young Jerry ,  who had only made a feint of undressing 
when he went to bed ,  was not long after his father .  Under 
cover of the darkness he followed out of the room ,  followed 
down the stairs ,  followed down the court ,  followed out into 
the streets .  He was in no uneasiness concerning his getting 
into the house again ,  for it was full of lodgers ,  and the door 
stood ajar all night .  

Impelled by a laudable ambition to study the art and 
mystery of his fathers honest calling ,  Young Jerry ,  keeping 
as close to house - fronts ,  walls ,  and doorways ,  as his eyes 
were close to one another ,  held his honoured parent in view .  
The honoured parent steering Northward ,  had not gone far ,  
when he was joined by another disciple of Izaak Walton ,  
and the two trudged on together .  

Within half an hour from the first starting ,  they were 
beyond the winking lamps ,  and the more than winking 
watchmen ,  and were out upon a lonely road .  Another 
fisherman was picked up here — and that so silently ,  that if 
Young Jerry had been superstitious ,  he might have supposed 
the second follower of the gentle craft to have ,  all of a sudden ,  
split himself in two .  

The three went on ,  and Young Jerry went on ,  until the 
three stopped under a bank overhanging the road .  Upon 
the top of the bank was a low brick wall ,  surmounted by an 
iron railing .  In the shadow of bank and wall the three 
turned out of the road ,  and up a blind lane ,  of which the 
wall— there ,  risen to some eight or ten feet high — formed 
one side .  Crouching down in a corner ,  peeping up the lane ,  
the next object that Young Jerry saw ,  was the form of his 
honoured parent ,  pretty well defined against a watery and 
clouded moon ,  nimbly scaling an iron gate .  He was soon 
over ,  and then the second fisherman got over ,  and then the 
third .  They all dropped softly on the ground within the 
gate ,  and lay there a little — listening perhaps .  Then ,  they 
moved away on their hands and knees .  

It was now Young Jerrys turn to approach the gate : 



THREE FISHERMEN 185 

which he did ,  holding his breath .  Crouching down again 
in a corner there ,  and looking in ,  he made out the three 
fishermen creeping through some rank grass ,  and all the 
gravestones in the churchyard — it was a large churchyard 
that they were in — looking on like ghosts in white ,  while the 
church tower itself looked on like the ghost of a monstrous 
giant .  They did not creep far ,  before they stopped and 
stood upright .  And then they began to fish .  

They fished with a spade ,  at first .  Presently the honoured 
parent appeared to be adjusting some instrument like a great 
corkscrew .  Whatever tools they worked with ,  they worked 
hard ,  until the awful striking of the church clock so terrified 
Young Jerry ,  that he made off ,  with his hair as stiff as his 
fathers .  

But ,  his long - cherished desire to know more about these 
matters ,  not only stopped him in his running away ,  but 
lured him back again .  They were still fishing perseveringly ,  
when he peeped in at the gate for the second time  ;  but ,  
now they seemed to have got a bite .  There was a screwing 
and complaining sound down below ,  and their bent figures 
were strained ,  as if by a weight .  By slow degrees the 
weight broke away the earth upon it ,  and came to the 
surface .  Young Jerry very well knew what it would be  ;  
but ,  when he saw it ,  and saw his honoured parent about to 
wrench it open ,  he was so frightened ,  being new to the 
sight ,  that he made off again ,  and never stopped until he 
had run a mile or more .  

He would not have stopped then for anything less necessary 
than breath ,  it being a spectral sort of race that he ran ,  and 
one highly desirable to get to the end of .  He had a strong 
idea that the coffin he had seen was running after him  ;  and ,  
pictured as hopping on behind him ,  bolt upright ,  upon its 
narrow end ,  always on the point of overtaking him and 
hopping on at his side — perhaps taking his arm — it was 
a pursuer to shun .  It was an inconsistent and ubiquitous 
fiend too ,  for ,  while it was making the whole night behind 
him dreadful ,  he darted out into the roadway to avoid dark 
alleys ,  fearful of its coming hopping out of them like 
a dropsical boys - Kite without tail and wings .  It hid in 
doorways too ,  rubbing its horrible shoulders against doors ,  
and drawing them up to its ears ,  as if it were laughing .  
It got into shadows on the road ,  and lay cunningly on its 
back to trip him up .  All this time it was incessantly hopping 



l86 A TALE OF TWO CITIES 

on behind and gaining on him ,  so that when the boy got to 
his own door he had reason for being half dead .  And even 
then it would not leave him ,  but followed him upstairs with 
a bump on every stair ,  scrambled into bed with him ,  and 
bumped down ,  dead and heavy ,  on his breast when he fell 
asleep .  

From his oppressed slumber ,  Young Jerry in his closet 
was awakened after daybreak and before sunrise ,  by the 
presence of his father in the family room .  Something had 
gone wrong with him  ;  at least ,  so Young Jerry inferred ,  
from the circumstance of his holding Mrs .  Cruncher by the 
ears ,  and knocking the back of her head against the head -  
board of the bed .  

 " I told you I would ,  "  said Mr .  Cruncher ,   "  and I did .  "  

 "  Jerry ,  Jerry ,  Jerry  !   "  his wife implored .  

 "  You oppose yourself to the profit of the business ,  "  said 
Jerry ,   "  and me and my partners suffer .  You was to honour 
and obey  ;  why the devil dont you ?  "  

 " I try to be a good wife ,  Jerry ,  "  the poor woman pro -  
tested ,  with tears .  

 "  Is it being a good wife to oppose your husbands 
business *? Is it honouring your husband to dishonour his 
business ? Is it obeying your husband to disobey him on 
the wital subject of his business ?  "  

11 You hadnt taken to the dreadful business then ,  Jerry .  "  

 " Its enough for you ,  "  retorted Mr .  Cruncher ,  to be 
the wife of a honest tradesman ,  and not to occupy your 
female mind with calculations when he took to his trade 
or when he didnt .  A honouring and obeying wife would 
let his trade alone altogether .  Call yourself a religious 
woman ? If youre a religious woman ,  give me a irreligious 
one  !  You have no more natral sense of duty than the bed 
of this here Thames river has of a pile ,  and similarly it 
must be knocked into you .  "  

The altercation was conducted in a low tone of voice ,  and 
terminated in the honest tradesmans kicking off his clay -  
soiled boots ,  and lying down at his length on the floor .  
After taking a timid peep at him lying on his back ,  with 
his rusty hands under his head for a pillow ,  his son lay 
down too ,  and fell asleep again .  

There was no fish for breakfast ,  and not much of any -  
thing else .  Mr .  Cruncher was out of spirits ,  and out of 
temper ,  and kept an iron pot - lid by him as a projectile for 



YOUNG JEKEYS ASPIRATION 187 

the correction of Mrs .  Cruncher ,  in case he should observe 
any symptoms of her saying Grace .  He was brushed and 
washed at the usual hour ,  and set off with his son to pursue 
his ostensible calling .  

Young Jerry ,  walking with the stool under his arm at his 
fathers side along sunny and crowded Fleet Street ,  was 
a very different Young Jerry from him of the previous 
night ,  running home through darkness and solitude from 
his grim pursuer .  His cunning was fresh with the day ,  and 
his qualms were gone with the night — in which particulars 
it is not improbable that he had compeers in Fleet Street 
and the City of London ,  that fine morning .  

 "  Father ,  "  said Young Jerry ,  as they walked along : taking 
care to keep at arms length and to have the stool well 
between them :  "  whats a Eesurrection - Man ?  "  

Mr .  Cruncher came to a stop on the pavement before he 
answered ,   "  How should I know ?  "  

 "  I thought you knowed everything ,  father ,  "  said the art -  
less boy .  

 " Hem  !   " Well ,  "  returned Mr .  Cruncher ,  going on again ,  
and lifting off his hat to give his spikes free play ,   "  hes 
a tradesman .  "  

 " Whats his goods ,  father? "  asked the brisk Young 
Jerry .  

 " His goods ,  "  said Mr .  Cruncher ,  after turning it over in 
his mind ,   "  is a branch of Scientific goods .  "  

 "  Persons bodies ,  aint it ,  father ?  "  asked the lively boy .  

 "  I believe it is something of that sort ,  "  said Mr .  Cruncher .  

 "  Oh ,  father ,  I should so like to be a Kesurrection - Man 
when Im quite growed up  !   "  

Mr .  Cruncher was soothed ,  but shook his head in a dubious 
and moral way .   "  It depends upon how you dewelop your 
talents .  Be careful to dewelop your talents ,  and never to 
say no more than you can help to nobody ,  and theres no 
telling at the present time what you may not come to be 
fit for .  "  As Young Jerry ,  thus encouraged ,  went on a few 
yards in advance ,  to plant the stool in the shadow of the 
Bar ,  Mr .  Cruncher added to himself:  " Jerry ,  you honest 
tradesman ,  theres hopes wot that boy will yet be a blessing 
to you ,  and a recompense to you for his mother  !   "  



CHAPTER XV 

KNITTING 

There had been earlier drinking than usual in the wine -  
shop of Monsieur Defarge .  As early as six oclock in the 
morning ,  sallow faces peeping through its barred windows 
had descried other faces within ,  bending over measures of 
wine .  Monsieur Defarge sold a very thin wine at the best 
of times ,  but it would seem to have been an unusually thin 
wine that he sold at this time .  A sour wine ,  moreover ,  or 
a souring ,  for its influence on the mood of those who drank 
it was to make them gloomy .  No vivacious Bacchanalian 
flame leaped out of the pressed grape of Monsieur Defarge : 
but ,  a smouldering fire that burnt in the dark ,  lay hidden 
in the dregs of it .  

This had been the third morning in succession ,  on which 
there had been early drinking at the wine - shop of Monsieur 
Defarge .  It had begun on Monday ,  and here was Wednesday 
come .  There had been more of early brooding than drink -  
ing  ;  for ,  many men had listened and whispered and slunk 
about there from the time of the opening of the door ,  who 
could not have laid a piece of money on the counter to save 
their souls .  These were to the full as interested in the 
place ,  however ,  as if they could have commanded whole 
barrels of wine  ;  and they glided from seat to seat ,  and from 
corner to corner ,  swallowing talk in lieu of drink ,  with 
greedy looks .  

Notwithstanding an unusual flow of company ,  the master 
of the wine - shop was not visible .  He was not missed  ;  for ,  
nobody who crossed the threshold looked for him ,  nobody 
asked for him ,  nobody wondered to see only Madame Defarge 
in her seat ,  presiding over the distribution of wine ,  with 
a bowl of battered small coins before her ,  as much defaced 
and beaten out of their original impress as the small coinage 
of humanity from whose ragged pockets they had come .  



THE MENDER OF ROADS I 89 

A suspended interest and a prevalent absence of mind ,  
were perhaps observed by the spies who looked in at the 
wine - shop ,  as they looked in at every place ,  high and low ,  
from the kings palace to the criminals gaol .  Games at 
cards languished ,  players at dominoes musingly built towers 
with them ,  drinkers drew figures on the tables with spilt 
drops of wine ,  Madame Defarge herself picked out the 
pattern on her sleeve with her toothpick ,  and saw and heard 
something inaudible and invisible a long way off .  

Thus ,  Saint Antoine in this vinous feature of his ,  until 
midday .  It was high noontide ,  when two dusty men passed 
through his streets and under his swinging lamps : of whom ,  
one was Monsieur Defarge : the other a mender of roads in 
a blue cap .  All adust and athirst ,  the two entered the 
wine - shop .  Their arrival had lighted a kind of fhe in the 
breast of Saint Antoine ,  fast spreading as they came along ,  
which stirred and nickered in flames of faces at most doors 
and windows .  Yet ,  no one had followed them ,  and no man 
spoke when they entered the wine - shop ,  though the eyes of 
every man there were turned upon them .  

 "  Good - day ,  gentlemen  !   "  said Monsieur Defarge .  

It may have been a signal for loosening the general 
tongue .  It elicited an answering chorus of  "  Good - day  !   "  

 "  It is bad weather ,  gentlemen ,  "  said Defarge ,  shaking his 
head .  

Upon which ,  every man looked at his neighbour ,  and then 
all cast down their eyes and sat silent .  Except one man ,  
who got up and went out .  

 "  My wife ,  "  said Defarge aloud ,  addressing Madame 
Defarge :  "  I have travelled certain leagues with this good 
mender of roads ,  called Jacques .  I met him — by accident — 
a day and halfs journey out of Paris .  He is a good child ,  
this mender of roads ,  called Jacques .  Give him to drink ,  
my wife  !   "  

A second man got up and went out .  Madame Defarge set 
wine before the mender of roads called Jacques ,  who doffed 
his blue cap to the company ,  and drank .  In the breast of 
his blouse he carried some coarse dark bread  ;  he ate of this 
between whiles ,  and sat munching and drinking near Madame 
Defarge s counter .  A third man got up and went out .  

Defarge refreshed himself with a draught of wine — but ,  
he took less than was given to the stranger ,  as being himself 
a man to whom it was no rarity — and stood waiting until 



T90 A TALE OF TWO PITIES 

the countryman had made his breakfast .  He looked at no 
one present ,  and no one now looked at him  ;  not even 
Madame Defarge ,  who had taken up her knitting ,  and was 
at work .  

 "  Have you finished your repast ,  friend ?  "  he asked ,  in 
due season .  

 "  Yes ,  thank you .  "  

 "  Come ,  then  !  You shall see the apartment that I told 
you you could occupy .  It will suit you to a marvel .  "  

Out of the wine - shop into the street ,  out of the street into 
a court - yard ,  out of the court - yard up a steep staircase ,  out 
of the staircase into a garret ,  — formerly the garret where 
a white - haired man sat on a low bench ,  stooping forward 
and very busy ,  making shoes .  

No white - haired man was there now  ;  but ,  the three men 
were there who had gone out of the wine - shop singly .  And 
between them and the white - haired man afar off ,  was the 
one small link ,  that they had once looked in at him through 
the chinks in the wall .  

Defarge closed the door carefully ,  and spoke in a subdued 
voice : 

 "  Jacques One ,  Jacques Two ,  Jacques Three  !  This is the 
witness encountered by appointment ,  by me ,  Jacques Four .  
He will tell you all .  Speak ,  Jacques Five  !   "  

The mender of roads ,  blue cap in hand ,  wiped his swarthy 
forehead with it ,  and said ,   " Where shall I commence ,  
monsieur ?  "  

 "  Commence ,  "  was Monsieur Defarge s not unreasonable 
reply ,   " at the commencement .  

 "  I saw him then ,  messieurs ,  "  began the mender of roads ,  
 "  a year ago this running summer ,  underneath the carriage 
of the Marquis ,  hanging by the chain .  Behold the manner 
of it .  I leaving my work on the road ,  the sun going to bed ,  
the carriage of the Marquis slowly ascending the hill ,  he 
hanging by the chain — like this .  "  

Again the mender of roads went through the whole per -  
formance  ;  in which he ought to have been perfect by that 
time ,  seeing that it had been the infallible resource and in -  
dispensable entertainment of his village during a whole year .  

Jacques One struck in ,  and asked if he had ever seen the 
man before ? 

 "  Never ,  "  answered the mender of roads ,  recovering his 
perpendicular .  



THE MENDER OE ROADS TELLS ITTS TALE 1CH 

Jacques Thrpe demanded how he afterwards recognised 
him then ? 

 "  By his tall figure ,  "  said the mender of roads ,  softly ,  and 
with his finger at his nose .   "  When Monsieur the Marquis 
demands that evening ,  • Say ,  what is he like ?  I make 
response ,   Tall as a spectre .  

 " You should have said ,  short as a dwarf ,  "  returned 
Jacques Two .  

 "  But what did I know? The deed was not then accom -  
plished ,  neither did he confide in me .  Observe  !  Under 
those circumstances even ,  I do not offer my testimony .  
Monsieur the Marquis indicates me with his finger ,  standing 
near our little fountain ,  and says ,  To me  !  Bring that 
rascal  !   My faith ,  messieurs ,  I offer nothing . * 

 "  He is right there ,  Jacques ,  "  murmured Defarge ,  to him 
who had interrupted .   "  Go on  !   "  

 "  Good  !   "  said the mender of roads ,  with an air of mystery .  
 "  The tall man is lost ,  and he is sought — how many months ? 
Nine ,  ten ,  eleven ?  "  

 "  No matter ,  the number ,  "  said Defarge .   " He is well 
hidden ,  but at last he is unluckily found .  Go on  !   "  

 I am again at work upon the hill - side ,  and the sun is 
again about to go to bed .  I am collecting my tools to 
descend to my cottage down in the village below ,  where it 
is already dark ,  when I raise my eyes ,  and see coming over 
the hill six soldiers .  In the midst of them is a tall man 
with his arms bound — tied to his sides — like this  !   "  

With the aid of his indispensable cap ,  he represented 
a man with his elbows bound fast at his hips ,  with cords 
that were knotted behind him .  

k> I stand aside ,  messieurs ,  by my heap of stones ,  to see 
the soldiers and their prisoner pass  ( for it is a solitary road ,  
that ,  where any spectacle is well worth looking at )  ,  and at 
first ,  as they approach ,  I see no more than that they are six 
soldiers with a tall man bound ,  and that they are almost 
black to my sight — except on the side of the sun going to 
bed ,  where they have a red edge ,  messieurs .  Also ,  I see 
that their long shadows are on the hollow ridge on the 
opposite side of the road ,  and are on the hill above it ,  and 
are like the shadows of giants .  Also ,  I see that they are 
covered with dust ,  and that the dust moves with them as 
they come ,  tramp ,  tramp  !  But when they advance quite 
near to me ,  I recognise the tall man ,  and he recognises me .  



I92 A TALE OF TWO CITIES 

Ah ,  but he would be well content to precipitate himself 
over the hill - side once again ,  as on the evening when he 
and I first encountered ,  close to the same spot  !   "  

He described it as if he were there ,  and it was evident 
that he saw it vividly  ;  perhaps he had not seen much in 
his life .  

 "  I do not show the soldiers that I recognise the tall man  ;  
he does not show the soldiers that he recognises me  ;  we do 
it ,  and we know it ,  with our eyes .   Come on  !   says the 
chief of that company ,  pointing to the village ,   bring him 
fast to his tomb  !   and they bring him faster .  I follow .  
His arms are swelled because of being bound so tight ,  his 
wooden shoes are large and clumsy ,  and he is lame .  
Because he is lame ,  and consequently slow ,  they drive him 
with their guns — like this  !   "  

He imitated the action of a mans being impelled forward 
by the butt - ends of muskets .  

 "  As they descend the hill like madmen running a race ,  
he falls .  They laugh and pick him up again .  His face is 
bleeding and covered with dust ,  but he cannot touch it  ;  
thereupon they laugh again .  They bring him into the 
village  ;  all the village runs to look  ;  they take him past 
the mill ,  and up to the prison  ;  all the village sees the 
prison gate open in the darkness of the night ,  and swallow 
him — like this  !   "  

He opened his mouth as wide as he could ,  and shut it 
with a sounding snap of his teeth .  Observant of his un -  
willingness to mar the effect by opening it again ,  Defarge 
said ,   " Go on ,  Jacques .  "  

 " All the village ,  "  pursued the mender of roads ,  on tiptoe 
and in a low voice ,   "  withdraws  ;  all the village whispers by 
the fountain  ;  all the village sleeps  ;  all the village dreams 
of that unhappy one ,  within the locks and bars of the prison 
on the crag ,  and never to come out of it ,  except to perish .  
In the morning ,  with my tools upon my shoulder ,  eating 
my morsel of black bread as I go ,  I make a circuit by the 
prison ,  on my way to my work .  There I see him ,  high up ,  
behind the bars of a lofty iron cage ,  bloody and dusty as 
last night ,  looking through .  He has no hand free ,  to wave 
to me  ;  I dare not call to him  ;  he regards me like a dead 
man .  "  

Defarge 1 and the three glanced darkly at one another .  The 
looks of all of them were dark ,  repressed ,  and revengeful ,  as 



THE MAN IN THE IRON CAGE I93 

they listened to the countrymans story  ;  the manner of all 
of them ,  while it was secret ,  was authoritative too .  They 
had the air of a rough tribunal  ;  Jacques One and Two 
sitting on the old pallet - bed ,  each with his chin resting on 
his hand ,  and his eyes intent on the road - mender  ;  Jacques 
Three ,  equally intent ,  on one knee behind them ,  with his 
agitated hand always gliding over the network of fine nerves 
about his mouth and nose  ;  Defarge standing between them 
and the narrator ,  whom he had stationed in the light of the 
window ,  by turns looking from him to them ,  and from them 
to him .  

 "  Go on ,  Jacques ,  "  said Defarge .  

 "  He remains up there in his iron cage some days .  The 
village looks at him by stealth ,  for it is afraid .  But it 
always looks up ,  from a distance ,  at the prison on the crag  ;  
and in the evening ,  when the work of the day is achieved 
and it assembles to gossip at the fountain ,  all faces are 
turned towards the prison .  Formerly ,  they were turned 
towards the posting - house  ;  now ,  they are turned towards 
the prison .  They whisper at the fountain ,  that although 
condemned to death he will not be executed  ;  they say that 
petitions have been presented in Paris ,  showing that he was 
enraged and made mad by the death of his child  ;  they say 
that a petition has been presented to the King himself .  
What do I know ? It is possible .  Perhaps yes ,  perhaps no .  "  

 "  Listen then ,  Jacques ,  "  Number One of that name sternly 
interposed .   "  Know that a petition was presented to the 
King and Queen .  All here ,  yourself excepted ,  saw the King 
take it ,  in his carriage in the street ,  sitting beside the Queen .  
It is Defarge whom you see here ,  who ,  at the hazard of his 
life ,  darted out before the horses ,  with the petition in his 
hand .  "  

And once again listen ,  Jacques !  "  said the kneeling 
Number Three : his fingers ever wandering over and over 
those fine nerves ,  with a strikingly greedy air ,  as if he 
hungered for something — that was neither food nor drink ;  
 "  the guard ,  horse and foot ,  surrounded the petitioner ,  and 
struck him blows .  You hear ?  "  

 " I hear ,  messieurs .  "  

 "  Go on then ,  "  said Defarge .  

 " Again  ;  on the other hand ,  they whisper at the fountain ,  "  
resumed the countryman ,   " that he is brought down into our 
country to be executed on the spot ,  and that he will very 
r .  * o 



194 A TALE OF TWO CITIES 

certainly be executed .  They even whisper that because he 
has slain Monseigneur ,  and because Monseigneur was the 
father of his tenants — serfs — what you will — he will be 
executed as a parricide .  One old man says at the fountain ,  
that his right hand ,  armed with the knife ,  will be burnt off 
before his face  ;  that ,  into wounds which will be made in his 
arms ,  his breast ,  and his legs ,  there will be poured boiling 
oil ,  melted lead ,  hot resin ,  wax ,  and sulphur  ;  finally ,  that 
he will be torn limb from limb by four strong horses .  That 
old man says ,  all this was actually done to a prisoner who 
made an attempt on the life of the late King ,  Louis Fifteen .  
But how do I know if he lies? I am not a scholar .  "  

 "  Listen once again then ,  Jaccpues  !   "  said the man with 
the restless hand and the craving air .   "  The name of that 
prisoner was Damiens ,  and it was all done in open day ,  in 
the open streets of this city of Paris  ;  and nothing was 
more noticed in the vast concourse that saw it done ,  than 
the crowd of ladies of quality and fashion ,  who were full 
of eager attention to the last — to the last ,  Jacques ,  prolonged 
until nightfall ,  when he had lost two legs and an arm ,  and 
still breathed  !  And it was done — why ,  how old are you ?  "  

 "  Thirty - five ,  "  said the mender of roads ,  who looked sixty .  

 " It was done when you were more than ten years old  ;  
you might have seen it .  "  

 "  Enough  !   "  said Defarge ,  with grim impatience .   "  Long 
live the Devil  !  Go on .  "  

 " Well !  Some whisper this ,  some whisper that ;  they 
speak of nothing else  ;  even the fountain appears to fall 
to that tune .  At length ,  on Sunday night when all the 
village is asleep ,  come soldiers ,  winding down from the 
prison ,  and their guns ring on the stones of the little street .  
Workmen dig ,  workmen hammer ,  soldiers laugh and sing  ;  
in the morning ,  by the fountain ,  there is raised a gallows 
forty feet high ,  poisoning the water .  "  

The mender of roads looked through rather than at the 
low ceiling ,  and pointed as if he saw the gallows somewhere 
in the sky .  

 " All work is stopped ,  all assemble there ,  nobody leads 
the cows out ,  the cows are there with the rest .  At midday ,  
the roll of drums .  Soldiers have marched into the prison 
in the night ,  and he is in the midst of many soldiers .  He 
is bound as before ,  and in his mouth there is a gag — tied 
so .  with a tight string ,  making him look almost as if he 



DOOMED TO DESTRUCTION 1 95 

laughed .  "  He suggested it ,  by creasing his face with his 
two thumbs ,  from the corners of hib mouth to his ears .  
 "  On the top of the gallows is fixed the knife ,  blade upwards ,  
with its point in the air .  He is hanged there forty feet 
high — and is left hanging ,  poisoning the water .  "  

They looked at one another ,  as he used his blue cap to 
wipe his face ,  on which the perspiration had started afresh 
while he recalled the spectacle .  

 "  It is frightful ,  messieurs .  How can the women and the 
children draw water  !  Who can gossip of an evening ,  under 
that shadow  !  Under it ,  have I said ? When I left the 
village ,  Monday evening as the sun was going to bed ,  and 
looked back from the hill ,  the shadow struck across the 
church ,  across the mill ,  across the prison — seemed to strike 
across the earth ,  messieurs ,  to where the sky rests upon it  !   "  

The hungry man gnawed one of his fingers as he looked 
at the other three ,  and his finger quivered with the craving 
that was on him .  

 " Thats all ,  messieurs .  I left at sunset  ( as I had been 
warned to do )  ,  and I walked on ,  that night and half next 
day ,  until I met  ( as I was warned I should )  this comrade .  
With him ,  I came on ,  now riding and now walking ,  through 
the rest of yesterday and through last night .  And here you 
see me  !   "  

After a gloomy silence ,  the first Jacques said ,   "  Good  !  
You have acted and recounted faithfully .  Will you wait 
for us a little ,  outside the door ?  "  

 " Very willingly ,  "  said the mender of roads .  Whom 
Defarge escorted to the top of the stairs ,  and ,  leaving 
seated there ,  returned .  

The three had risen ,  and their heads were together when 
he came back to the garret .  

 "  How say you ,  Jacques? "  demanded Number One .   " To 
be registered ?  "  

 " To be registered ,  as doomed to destruction ,  "  returned 
Defarge .  

 "  Magnificent  !   "  croaked the man with the craving .  

 "  The chateau and all the race ?  "  inquired the first .  

 " The chateau and all the race ,  "  returned Defarge .   " Ex -  
termination .  "  

The hungry man repeated ,  in a rapturous croak ,   " Magni -  
ficent  !   "  and began gnawing another finger .  

 " Are you sure ,  "  asked Jacques Two ,  of Defarge ,   " that 



T96 A TALE OF TWO CITIES 

no embarrassment can arise from our manner of keeping 

the register ? Without doubt it is safe ,  for no one beyond 
ourselves can decipher it  ;  but shall we always be able to 
decipher it — or ,  I ought to say ,  will she ?  "  

Jacques ,  "  returned Defarge ,  drawing himself up ,   " if 
madame my wife undertook to keep the register in her 
memory alone ,  she would not lose a word of it — not a 
syllable ,  of it .  Knitted ,  in her own stitches and her own 
symbols ,  it will always be as plain to her as the sun .  Con -  
fide in Madame Defarge .  It would be easier for the weakest 
poltroon that lives ,  to erase himself from existence ,  than 
to erase one letter of his name or crimes from the knitted 
register of Madame Defarge .  "  

There was a murmur of confidence and approval ,  and 
then the man who hungered ,  asked :  " Is this rustic to be 
sent back soon ? I hope so .  He is very simple  ;  is he not 
a little dangerous ?  "  

 " He knows nothing ,  said Defarge ;   " at least nothing 
more than would easily elevate himself to a gallows of the 
same height .  I charge myself with him  ;  let him remain 
with me  ;  I will take care of him ,  and set him on his road .  
He wishes to see the fine world —  - the King ,  the Queen ,  and 
Court  ;  let him see them on Sunday .  "  

 " What? "  exclaimed the hungry man ,  staring .   " Is it 
a good sign ,  that he wishes to see Royalty and Nobility ?  "  

 " Jacques ,  "  said Defarge ;   " judiciously show a cat milk ,  
if you wish her to thirst for it .  Judiciously show a dog 
his natural prey ,  if you wish him to bring it down one day .  "  

Nothing more was said ,  and the mender of roads ,  being 
found already dozing on the topmost stair ,  was advised to 
lay himself down on the pallet - bed and take some rest .  He 
needed no persuasion ,  and was soon asleep .  

Worse quarters than Defarges wine - shop ,  could easily 
have been found in Paris for a provincial slave of that 
degree .  Saving for a mysterious dread of madame by which 
he was constantly haunted ,  his life was very new and 
agreeable .  But ,  madame sat all day at her counter ,  so 
expressly unconscious of him .  and so particularly determined 
not to perceive that his being there had any connexion 
with anything below the surface ,  that he shook in his 
wooden shoes whenever his eye lighted on her .  For ,  he 
contended with himself that it was impossible to foresee 
what that lady might pretend next  ;  and he felt assured 



AT VERSAILLES J 97 

that if slie should take it into her brightly ornamented head 
to pretend that she had seen him do a murder and after -  
wards flay the victim ,  she would infallibly go through with 
it until the play was played out .  

Therefore ,  when Sunday came ,  the mender of roads was 
not enchanted  ( though he said he was )  to find that madame 
was to accompany monsieur and himself to Versailles .  It 
was additionally disconcerting to have madame knitting all 
the way there ,  in a public conveyance  ;  it was additionally 
disconcerting yet ,  to have madame in the crowd in the 
afternoon ,  still with her knitting in her hands as the crowd 
waited to see the carriage of the King and Queen .  

 "  You work hard ,  madame , * said a man near her .  

 "  Yes ,  "  answered Madame Defarge  ;   " I have a good deal 
to do .  "  

 " What do you make ,  madame? "  

■ Many things .  "  

 "  For instance  "  

 " For instance ,  "  returned Madame Defarge ,  composedly ,  
 " shrouds .  "  

The man moved a little further away ,  as soon as he could ,  
and the mender of roads fanned himself with his blue cap : 
feeling it mightily close and oppressive .  If he needed a 
King and Queen to restore him ,  he was fortunate in having 
his remedy at hand : for ,  soon the large - faced King and the 
fair - faced Queen came in their golden coach ,  attended by the 
shining Bulls Eye of their Court ,  a glittering multitude of 
laughing ladies and fine lords  ;  and in jewels and silks and 
powder and splendour and elegantly spurning figures and 
handsomely disdainful faces of both sexes ,  the mender of 
roads bathed himself ,  so much to his temporary intoxication ,  
that he cried Long live the King ,  Long live the Queen ,  
Long live everybody and everything  !  as if he had never 
heard of ubiquitous Jaccpies in his time .  Then ,  there were 
gardens ,  court - yards ,  terraces ,  fountains ,  green banks ,  more 
King and Queen ,  more Bulls Eye ,  more lords and ladies ,  
more Long live they all  !  until he absolutely wept with 
sentiment .  During the whole of this scene ,  which lasted 
some three hours ,  he had plenty of shouting and weeping 
and sentimental company ,  and throughout Defarge held 
him by the collar ,  as if to restrain him from flying at 
the objects of his brief devotion and tearing them to 
pieces .  



ig8 A TALE OF TWO CITIES 

 "  Bravo  !   "  said Defarge ,  clapping him on the hack when 
it was over ,  like a patron  ;   "  you are a good hoy  !   "  

The mender of roads was now coming to himself ,  and 
was mistrustful of having made a mistake in his late 
demonstrations  ;  hut no .  

•You are the fellow we want .  "  said Defarge .  in his ear ;  
 "  you make these fools believe that it will last for ever .  
Then ,  they are the more insolent ,  and it is the nearer 
ended .  "  

 " Hey !  "  cried the mender of roads ,  reflectively ;   " thats 
true .  "  

 These fools know nothing .  While they despise your 
breath ,  and would stop it for ever and ever ,  in you or in 
a hundred like you rather than in one of their own horses 
or dogs ,  they only know what your breath tells them .  Let 
it deceive them ,  then ,  a little longer  ;  it cannot deceive 
them too much .  "  

Madame Defarge looked superciliously at the client ,  and 
nodded in confirmation .  

 " As to you ,  "  said she .   " you would shout and shed tears 
for anything ,  if it made a show and a noise .  Say  !  Would 
you not *?  "  

 " Truly ,  madame .  I think so .  For the moment .  "  

• If you were shown a great heap of dolls ,  and were set 
upon them to pluck them to pieces and despoil them for 
your own advantage ,  you would pick out the richest and 
gayest .  Say  !  Would you not ?  "  

 " Truly yes ,  madame .  "  

 "  Yes .  And if you were shown a flock of birds ,  unable to 
fly ,  and were set upon them to strip them of their feathers 
for your own advantage ,  you would set upon the birds of 
the finest feathers  ;  would you not ?  "  

 " It is true ,  madame .  "  

• You have seen both dolls and birds to - day ,  "  said 
Madame Defarge .  with a wave of her hand towards the 
place where they had last been apparent  ;   "  now ,  go home  !   "  



CHAPTER XVI 

STILL KNITTING 

Madame Defarge and monsieur her husband returned amic -  
ably to the bosom of Saint Antoine ,  while a speck in a blue 
cap toiled through the darkness ,  and through the dust ,  and 
down the weary miles of avenue by the wayside ,  slowly 
tending towards that point of the compass where the chateau 
of Monsieur the Marquis ,  now in his grave ,  listened to the 
whispering trees .  Such ample leisure had the stone faces ,  
now ,  for listening to the trees and to the fountain ,  that the 
few village scarecrows who ,  in their quest for herbs to eat 
and fragments of dead stick to burn ,  strayed within sight 
of the great stone court - yard and terrace staircase ,  had it 
borne in upon their starved fancy that the expression of 
the faces was altered .  A rumour just lived in the village — 
had a faint and bare existence there ,  as its people had— that 
when the knife struck home ,  the faces changed ,  from faces 
of pride to faces of anger and pain  ;  also ,  that when that 
dangling figure was hauled up forty feet above the fountain ,  
they changed again ,  and bore a cruel look of being avenged ,  
which they would henceforth bear for ever .  In the stone 
face over the great window of the bed - chamber where the 
murder was done ,  two fine dints were pointed out in the 
sculptured nose ,  which everybody recognised ,  and which 
nobody had seen of old  ;  and on the scarce occasions when 
two or three ragged peasants emerged from the crowd to 
take a hurried peep at Monsieur the Marquis petrified ,  a 
skinny finger would not have pointed to it for a minute ,  
before they all started away among the moss and leaves ,  
like the more fortunate hares who could find a living there .  

Chateau and hut ,  stone face and dangling figure ,  the red 
stain on the stone floor ,  and the pure water in the village 
Well — thousands of acres of land — a whole province of France 

all France itself — lay under the night sky ,  concentrated 
into a faint hair - breadth line .  So does a whole world ,  with 



200 A tali: or two cities 

all its greatnesses and littlenesses ,  lie in a twinkling star .  
And as mere human knowledge can split a ray of light and 
analyse the manner of its composition ,  so .  sublimer intelli -  
gences may read in the feeble shining of this earth of ours ,  
every thought and act .  every vice and virtue ,  of every 
responsible creature on it .  

The Defarges ,  husband and wife ,  came lumbering under 
the starlight ,  in their public vehicle ,  to that gate of Paris 
whereunto their journey naturally tended .  There was the 
usual stoppage at the barrier guard - house ,  and the usual 
lanterns came glancing forth for the usual examination and 
inquiry .  Monsieur Defarge alighted : knowing one or two 
of the soldiery there ,  and one of the police .  The latter he 
was intimate with ,  and affectionately embraced .  

When Saint Antoine had again enfolded the Defarges in 
his dusky wings ,  and they ,  having finally alighted near the 
Saints boundaries ,  were picking their way on foot through 
the black mud and offal of his streets ,  Madame Defarge 
spoke to her husband : 

 "  Say then ,  my friend  ;  what did Jacques of the police tell 
thee ?  "  

 "  Very little to - night ,  but all he knows .  There is another 
spy commissioned for our quarter .  There may be many 
more ,  for all that he can say ,  but he knows of one .  "  

 " Eh well  !   "  said Madame Defarge ,  raising her eyebrows 
with a cool business air .   "  It is necessary to register him .  
How do they call that man ?  "  

 " He is English .  "  

 "  So much the better .  His name ?  "  

 " Barsad ,  "  said Defarge ,  making it French by pronuncia -  
tion .  But ,  he had been so careful to get it accurately ,  that 
he then spelt it with perfect correctness .  

 "  Barsad ,  1  "  repeated madame .   "  Good .  Christian name ?  "  

 " John .  "  

 " John Barsad ,  "  repeated madame ,  after murmuring it 
once to herself .   "  Good .  His appearance  ;  is it known? "  

 "  Age ,  about forty years  ;  height ,  about five feet nine  ;  
black hair  ;  complexion dark  ;  generally ,  rather handsome 
visage  ;  eyes dark ,  face thin ,  long ,  and sallow  ;  nose aquiline ,  
but not straight ,  having a peculiar inclination towards the 
left cheek  ;  expression ,  therefore ,  sinister .  "  

 " Eh my faith .  It is a portrait  !   "  said madame .  laughing .  
 " He shall be registered to - morrow .  "  



IN THE WINE - SHOP 201 

They turned into the wine - shop ,  which was closed  ( for it 
was midnight )  and where Madame Defarge immediately took 
her post at her desk ,  counted the small moneys that had 
been taken during her absence ,  examined the stock ,  went 
through the entries in the book ,  made other entries of her 
own ,  checked the serving man in eveiy possible way ,  and 
finally dismissed him to bed .  Then she turned out the 
contents of the bowl of money for the second time ,  and 
began knotting them up in her handkerchief ,  in a chain of 
separate knots ,  for safe keeping through the night .  All 
this while ,  Defarge ,  with his pipe in his mouth ,  walked up 
and down ,  complacently admiring ,  but never interfering  ;  in 
which condition ,  indeed ,  as to the business and his domestic 
affairs ,  he w T alked up and down through life .  

The night was hot ,  and the shop ,  close shut and sur -  
rounded by so foul a neighbourhood ,  was ill - smelling .  
Monsieur Defarge  " s olfactory sense was by no means delicate ,  
but the stock of wine smelt much stronger than it ever 
tasted ,  and so did the stock of rum and brandy and aniseed .  
He whiffed the compound of scents away ,  as he put down 
his smoked - out pipe .  

•You are fatigued .  "  said madame ,  raising her glance as 
she knotted the money .   "  There are only the usual odours .  "  

 " I am a little tired ,  "  her husband acknowledged .  

 " You are a little depressed ,  too ,  "  said madame ,  whose 
quick eyes had never been so intent on the accounts ,  but 
they had had a ray or two for him .   "  Oh ,  the men ,  the 
men  !   "  

•But my dear  !   "  began Defarge .  

 "  But my dear  !   "  repeated madame ,  nodding firmly  ;   "  but 
my dear  !  You are faint of heart to - night ,  my dear  !   "  

 " Well ,  then ,  "  said Defarge ,  as if a thought were wrung 
out of his breast ,   "  it is a long time .  "  

 "  It is a long time ,  "  repeated his wife  ;   " ■ and when is it 
not a long time ? Vengeance and retribution require a long 
time  ;  it is the rule .  "  

 " It does not take a long time to strike a man with 
Lightning ,  "  said Defarge .  

 "  How long ,  "  demanded madame ,  composedly ,  u does it 
take to make and store the lightning ? Tell me .  "  

Defarge raised his head thoughtfully ,  as if there were 
something in that too .  

 "  It does not take a long time ,  "  said madame ,   "  for an 
i .  g 3 



202 A TALE OF TWO CITIES 

earthquake to swallow a town .  Eh well  !  Tell me how 
long it takes to prepare the earthquake ?  "  

 " A long time ,  I suppose ,  "  said Defarge .  

 "  But when it is ready ,  it takes place ,  and grinds to pieces 
everything before it .  In the meantime ,  it is always pre -  
paring ,  though it is not seen or heard .  That is your con -  
solation .  Keep it . * 

She tied a knot with flashing eyes ,  as if it throttled a foe .  

 " I tell thee ,  "  said madame ,  extending her right hand ,  
for emphasis ,   "  that although it is a long time on the road ,  
it is on the road and coming .  I tell thee it never retreats ,  
and never stops .  I tell thee it is always advancing .  Look 
around and consider the lives of all the world that we know ,  
consider the faces of all the world that we know ,  consider the 
rage and discontent to which the Jacquerie addresses itself 
with more and more of certainty every hour .  Can such 
things last? Bah !  I mock you .  "  

 ( i My brave wife ,  "  returned Defarge .  standing before her 
with his head a little bent ,  and his hands clasped at his back ,  
like a docile and attentive pupil before his catechist ,   "  I do 
not question all this .  But it has lasted a long time ,  and it 
is possible — you know well ,  my wife ,  it is possible — that it 
may not come ,  during our lives .  "  

 " Eh well !  How then? "  demanded madame ,  tying 
another knot ,  as if there were another enemy strangled .  

 "  Well  !   "  said Defarge ,  with a half - complaining and half -  
apologetic shrug .   " We shall not see the triumph /  

 " We shall have helped it ,  "  returned madame ,  with her 
extended hand in strong action .   "  Nothing that we do .  is 
done in vain .  I believe ,  with all my soul ,  that we shall see 
the triumph .  But even if not .  even if I knew certainly not ,  
show me the neck of an aristocrat and tyrant ,  and still 
I would  "  

Then madame .  with her teeth set .  tied a very terrible 
knot indeed .  

 " Hold !  "  cried Defarge ,  reddening a little as if he felt 
charged with cowardice  ;   "  I too .  my dear ,  will stop at 
nothing .  "  

 "  Yes  !  But it is your weakness that you sometimes need 
to see your victim and your opportunity ,  to sustain you .  
Sustain yourself without that .  When the time comes ,  let 
loose a tiger and a devil  ;  but wait for the time with the 
tiger and the devil chained — not shown — yet always ready ,  "  



A SUSPECTED SPY 203 

Madame enforced the conclusion of this piece of advice by -  
striking her little counter with her chain of money as if she 
knocked its brains out ,  and then gathering -  the heavy hand -  
kerchief under her arm in a serene manner ,  and observing 
that it was time to go to bed .  

Next noontide saw the admirable woman in her usual 
place in the wine - shop ,  knitting away assiduously .  A rose 
lay beside her ,  and if she now and then glanced at the 
flower ,  it was with no infraction of her usual preoccupied 
air .  There were a few customers ,  drinking or not drinking ,  
standing or seated ,  sprinkled about .  The day was very hot ,  
and heaps of flies ,  who were extending their inquisitive and 
adventurous perquisitions into all the glutinous little glasses 
near madame ,  fell dead at the bottom .  Their decease made 
no impression on the other flies out promenading ,  who 
looked at them in the coolest manner  ( as if they themselves 
were elephants ,  or something as far removed )  ,  until they 
met the same fate .  Curious to consider how heedless flies 
are  !  — perhaps they thought as much at Court that sunny 
summer day .  

A figure entering at the door threw a shadow on Madame 
Defarge which she felt to be a new one .  She laid down her 
knitting ,  and began to pin her rose in her head - dress ,  before 
she looked at the figure .  

It was curious .  The moment Madame Defarge took up 
the rose ,  the customers ceased talking ,  and began gradually 
to drop out of the wine - shop .  

 "  Good day ,  madame ,  "  said the new - comer .  

 " Good day ,  monsieur .  "  

She said it aloud ,  but added to herself ,  as she resumed 
her knitting:  " Hah !  Good day ,  age about forty ,  height 
about five feet nine ,  black hair ,  generally rather handsome 
visage ,  complexion dark ,  eyes dark ,  thin long and sallow 
face ,  aquiline nose but not straight ,  having a peculiar in -  
clination towards the left cheek which imparts a sinister 
expression  !  Good day ,  one and all  !   "  

 "  Have the goodness to give me a little glass of old cognac ,  
and a mouthful of cool fresh water ,  madame .  "  

Madame complied with a polite air .  

 "  Marvellous cognac this ,  madame  !   "  

It was the first time it had ever been so complimented ,  
and Madame Defarge knew enough of its antecedents to 
know better .  She said ,  however ,  that the cognac was flattered ,  



204 A TALE OF TWO CITIES 

and took lip her knitting .  The visitor watched her fingers 
for a few moments ,  and took the opportunity of observing 
the place in general .  

 "  You knit with great skill ,  madam .  "  

 "  I am accustomed to it .  "  

 "  A pretty pattern too  !   "  

 "  You think so ?  "  said madame ,  looking at him with a 
smile .  

 "  Decidedly .  May one ask what it is for ?  "  

 "  Pastime ,  "  said madame ,  still looking at him with a smile ,  
while her fingers moved nimbly .  

 "  Not for use ?  "  

 " That depends .  I may find a use for it one day .  If 

I do well ,  "  said madame ,  drawing a breath and nodding 

her head with a stern kind of coquetry ,   "  Ill use it  !   "  

It was remarkable : but the taste of Saint Antoine seemed 
to be decidedly opposed to a rose on the head - dress of 
Madame Defarge .  Two men had entered separately ,  and 
had been about to order drink ,  when ,  catching sight of that 
novelty ,  they faltered ,  made a pretence of looking about as if 
for some friend who was not there ,  and went away .  Nor ,  
of those who had been there when this visitor entered ,  was 
there one left .  They had all dropped off .  The spy had 
kept his eyes open ,  but had been able to detect no sign .  
They had lounged away in a poverty - stricken ,  purposeless ,  
accidental manner ,  quite natural and unimpeachable .  

 "  John ,  "  thought madame ,  checking off her work as her 
fingers knitted ,  and her eyes looked at the stranger .   "  Stay 
long enough ,  and I shall knit  Barsad  before you go .  "  

 "  You have a husband ,  madame ? "  

•I have .  "  

 " Children? "  

 " No children .  "  

 "  Business seems bad ?  "  

 "  Business is very bad  ;  the people are so poor . * 

 " Ah ,  the unfortunate ,  miserable people  !  So oppressed ,  
too — as you say .  "  

* As you say ,  "  madame retorted ,  correcting him ,  and deftly 
knitting an extra something into his name that boded him 
no good .  

 "  Pardon me  ;  certainly it was I who said so ,  but you 
naturally think so .  Of course .  "  

 " I think? "  returned madame ,  in a high voice .   " land 






THE SPY AT WORK 205 

my husband have enough to do to keep this wine - shop open ,  
without thinking .  All we think ,  here ,  is how to live .  That 
is the subject ive think of ,  and it gives us ,  from morning to 
night ,  enough to think about ,  without embarrassing our heads 
concerning others .  I think for others ? No ,  no .  "  

The spy ,  who was there to pick up any crumbs he could 
find or make ,  did not allow his baffled state to express itself 
in his sinister face  ;  but ,  stood with an air of gossiping 
gallantry ,  leaning his elbow on Madame Defarges little 
counter ,  and occasionally sipping his cognac .  

 " A bad business this ,  madame ,  of Gaspards execution .  
Ah  !  the poor Gaspard  !   "  With a sigh of great compassion .  

 "  My faith  !   "  returned madame ,  coolly and lightly ,   "  if 
people use knives for such purposes ,  they have to pay for it .  
He knew beforehand what the price of his luxury was  ;  he 
has paid the price .  "  

 "  I believe ,  "  said the spy ,  dropping his soft voice to a 
tone that invited confidence ,  and expressing an injured revo -  
lutionary susceptibility in every muscle of his wicked face : 
 "  I believe there is much compassion and anger in this neigh -  
bourhood ,  touching the poor fellow? Between ourselves .  "  

 "  Is there ?  "  asked madame ,  vacantly .  

 "  Is there not ?  "  

 "  — Here is my husband  !   "  said Madame Defarge .  

As the keeper of the wine - shop entered at the door ,  the 
spy saluted him by touching his hat ,  and saying ,  with an 
engaging smile ,   "  Good day ,  Jaccpies  !   "  Defarge stopped 
short ,  and stared at him .  

 "  Good day ,  Jacques  !   "  the spy repeated  ;  with not quite 
so much confidence ,  or quite so easy a smile under the 
stare .  

 "  You deceive yourself ,  monsieur ,  "  returned the keeper of 
the wine - shop .   "  You mistake me for another .  That is not 
my name .  I am Ernest Defarge .  "  

 "  It is all the same ,  "  said the spy ,  airily ,  but discomfited 
too :   good day  !   "  

 "  Good day  !   "  answered Defarge ,  drily .  

 "  I was saying to madame ,  with whom I had the pleasure 
of chatting when you entered ,  that they tell me there is — 
and no wonder  !  — much sympathy and anger in Saint 
Antoine ,  touching the unhappy fate of poor Gaspard .  "  

• No one has told me so ,  "  said Defarge ,  shaking his head .  
 "  I know nothing of it .  "  



2o6 A TALE OF TWO CTTTF . S 

Having said it ,  he passed behind the little counter ,  and 
stood with his hand on the back of his wifes chair ,  looking 
over that barrier at the person to whom they were both 
opposed ,  and whom either of them would have shot with the 
greatest satisfaction .  

The spy ,  well used to his business ,  did not change his 
unconscious attitude ,  but drained his little glass of cognac ,  
took a sip of fresh water ,  and asked for another glass of 
cognac .  Madame Defarge poured it out for him .  took to her 
knitting again ,  and hummed a little song over it .  

u You seem to know this cmarter well  ;  that is to say ,  
better than I do *?  "  observed Defarge .  

u Not at all ,  but I hope to know it better .  I am so 
profoundly interested in its miserable inhabitants .  "  

 "  Hah  !   "  muttered Defarge .  

 "  The pleasure of conversing with you ,  Monsieur Defarge ,  
recalls to me ,  "  pursued the spy .   " that I have the honour 
of cherishing some interesting associations with your 
name .  "  

 "  Indeed  !   "  said Defarge ,  with much indifference .  

 "  Yes ,  indeed .  When Dr .  Manette was released ,  you ,  
his old domestic ,  had the charge of him ,  I know .  He was 
delivered to you .  You see I am informed of the circum -  
stances ?  "  

 " Such is the fact ,  certainly , * said Defarge .  He had had 
it conveyed to him ,  in an accidental touch of his wifes elbow 
as she knitted and warbled ,  that he would do best to answer ,  
but always with brevity .  

 " It was to you ,  "  said the spy ,   " that his daughter came  ;  
and it was from your care that his daughter took him ,  ac -  
companied by a neat brown monsieur : how is he called ? — 
in a little wig — Lorry — of the bank of Tellson and Company 
— over to England .  "  

 "  Such is the fact ,  "  repeated Defarge .  

 "  Very interesting remembrances  !   "  said the spy .   "  I have 
known Dr .  Manette and his daughter ,  in England .  "  

 " Yes? "  said Defarge .  

 " You dont hear much about them now? "  said the spy .  

 "  No ,  "  said Defarge .  

 "  In effect ,  "  madame struck in .  looking up from her work 
and her little song ,   "  we never hear about them .  YVe re -  
ceived the news of their safe arrival ,  and perhaps another 
letter ,  or perhaps two ;  but ,  since then ,  they have gradually 



■  .   \   .  .   .  







a 
it 



DISQUIETING INTELLIGENCE 209 

taken their road in life — we ,  ours — and we have held no 
correspondence .   "  

 "  Perfectly so ,  madame ,  "  replied the spy .   "  She is going 
to be married .  "  

 "  Going? "  echoed madame .   "  She was pretty enough to 
have been married long ago .  You English are cold ,  it seems 
to me .  "  

Oh  !  You know I am English .  "  

I perceive your tongue is ,  "  returned madame  ;   "  and 
what the tongue is ,  I suppose the man is .  "  

He did not take the identification as a compliment  ;  but 
he made the best of it ,  and turned it off with a laugh .  After 
sipping his cognac to the end ,  he added : 

 " Yes ,  Miss Manette is going to be married .  But not to 
an Englishman  ;  to one who ,  like herself ,  is French by birth .  
And speaking of Gaspard  ( ah ,  poor Gaspard  !  It was cruel ,  
cruel  !  )  ,  it is a curious thing that she is going to marry the 
nephew of Monsieur the Marquis ,  for whom Gaspard was 
exalted to that height of so many feet  ;  in other words ,  the 
present Marquis .  But he lives unknown in England ,  he is 
no Marquis there  ;  he is Mr .  Charles Darnay .  DAulnais is 
the name of his mothers family .  "  

Madame Defarge knitted steadily ,  but the intelligence had 
a palpable effect upon her husband .  Do what he would ,  
behind the little counter ,  as to the striking of a light and 
the lighting of his pipe ,  he was troubled ,  and his hand was 
not trustworthy .  The spy would have been no spy if he had 
failed to see it ,  or to record it in his mind .  

Having made ,  at least ,  this one hit ,  whatever it might 
prove to be worth ,  and no customers coming in to help him 
to any other ,  Mr .  Barsad paid for what he had drunk ,  and 
took his leave : taking occasion to say ,  in a genteel manner ,  
before he departed ,  that he looked forward to the pleasure 
of seeing Monsieur and Madame Defarge again .  For some 
minutes after he had emerged into the outer presence of Saint 
Antoine ,  the husband and wife remained exactly as he had 
left them ,  lest he should come back .  

 "  Can it be true ,  "  said Defarge ,  in a low voice ,  looking 
down at his wife as he stood smoking with his hand on 
the back of her chair:  " what he has said of Maamselle 
Manette ?  "  

 "  As he has said it ,  "  returned madame ,  lifting her eyebrows 
a little ,   "  it is probably false .  But it may be true .  "  



2 TO A TALE OF TWO CITIES 

 " If it is  "  Defarge began ,  and stopped .  

u If it is ?  "  repeated his wife .  

 "  — And if it does come ,  while we live to see it triumph — 
I hope ,  for her sake .  Destiny will keep her husband out of 
France .   "  

 "  Her husbands destiny .  "  said Madame Defarge ,  with her 
usual composure ,   "  will take him where he is to go ,  and will 
lead him to the end that is to end him .  That is all 1 
know .  "  

 "  But it is very strange — now .  at least ,  is it not very 
strange  "  — said Defarge ,  rather pleading with his wife to 
induce her to admit it ,   "  that ,  after all our sympathy for 
Monsieur her father ,  and herself ,  her husbands name should 
be proscribed under your hand at this moment ,  by the side 
of that infernal dogs who has just left us? "  

 "  Stranger things than that will happen when it does 
come .  "  answered madame .   "  I have them both here ,  of 
a certainty  ;  and they are both here for their merits  ;  that is 
enough .   "  

She rolled up her knitting when she had said those words ,  
and presently took the rose out of the handkerchief that 
was wound about her head .  Either Saint Antoine had an 
instinctive sense that the objectionable decoration was gone ,  
or Saint Antoine was on the watch for its disappearance  ;  
howbeit ,  the Saint took courage to lounge in .  very shortly 
afterwards ,  and the wine - shop recovered its habitual aspect .  

In the evening ,  at which season of all others Saint Antoine 
turned himself inside out ,  and sat on door - steps and window -  
ledges ,  and came to the corners of vile streets and courts ,  for 
a breath of air ,  Madame Defarge with her work in her hand 
was accustomed to pass from place to place and from group 
to group : a Missionary — there were many like her — such as 
the world will do well never to breed again .  All the women 
knitted .  They knitted Avorthless things  ;  but .  the mechanical 
work was a mechanical substitute for eating and drinking  ;  
the hands moved for the jaws and the digestive apparatus : 
if the bony fingers had been still ,  the stomachs would have 
been more famine  - pinched .  

But .  as the fingers went ,  the eyes went ,  and the thoughts .  
And as Madame Defarge moved on from group to group ,  all 
three went quicker and fiercer among every little knot of 
women that she had spoken with ,  and left behind .  

Her husband smoked at his door ,  looking after her with 



KNTTTTNO A GREAT NET 211 

admiration .   "  A great woman ,  "  said he ,   "  a strong woman ,  
a grand woman ,  a frightfully grand woman  !   "  

Dai - kness closed around ,  and then came the ringing of 
church bells and the distant beating of the military drums in 
the Palace Court - Yard ,  as the women sat knitting ,  knitting .  
Darkness encompassed them .  Another darkness was closing 
in as surely ,  when the church bells ,  then ringing pleasantly 
in many an airy steeple over France ,  should be melted into 
thundering cannon  ;  when the military drums should be 
beating to drown a wretched voice ,  that night all - potent as 
the voice of Power and Plenty ,  Freedom and Life .  So 
much was closing in about the women who sat knitting ,  
knitting ,  that they their very selves were closing in around 
a structure yet unbuilt ,  where they were to sit knitting ,  
knitting ,  counting dropping heads .  



CHAPTER XVII 

ONE NIGHT 

Never did the sun go down with a brighter glory on the 
quiet corner in Soho ,  than one memorable evening when the 
Doctor and his daughter sat under the plane - tree together .  
Never did the moon rise with a milder radiance over great 
London ,  than on that night when it found them still seated 
under the tree ,  and shone upon their faces through its leaves .  

Lucie was to be married to - morrow .  She had reserved 
this last evening for her father ,  and they sat alone under 
the plane - tree .  

 "  You are happy ,  my clear father?  "  

 "  Quite ,  my child .  "  

They had said little ,  though they had been there a long 
time .  When it was yet light enough to work and read ,  she 
had neither engaged herself in her usual work ,  nor had she 
read to him .  She had employed herself in both ways ,  at his 
side under the tree ,  many and many a time  ;  but ,  this time 
was not quite like any other ,  and nothing could make it so .  

 "  And I am very happy to - night ,  dear father .  I am deeply 
happy in the love that Heaven has so blessed — my love for 
Charles ,  and Charless love for me .  But ,  if my life were not 
to be still consecrated to you ,  or if my marriage were so 
arranged as that it would part us ,  even by the length of 
a few of these streets ,  I should be more unhappy and self -  
reproachful now than I can tell you .  Even as it is  "  

Even as it was ,  she could not command her voice .  

In the sad moonlight ,  she clasped him by the neck ,  and 
laid her face upon his breast .  In the moonlight which is 
always sad ,  as the light of the sun itself is — as the light 
called human life is — at its coming and its going .  

 "  Dearest dear  !  Can you tell me ,  this last time ,  that you 
feel quite ,  quite sure ,  no new affections of mine ,  and no new 
duties of mine ,  will ever interpose between us?  /  know it 



LUCIE AND HER FATHER 21 3 

well ,  but do you know it ? In your own heart ,  do you feel 
quite certain ?  "  

Her father answered ,  with a cheerful firmness of convic -  
tion he could scarcely have assumed ,   "  Quite sure ,  my darling !  
More than that ,  "  he added ,  as he tenderly kissed her:  " my 
future is far brighter ,  Lucie ,  seen through your marriage ,  
than it could have been — nay ,  than it ever was — Avithout it .  "  

 "  If I could hope that ,  my father  !   "  

 "  Believe it ,  love  !  Indeed it is so .  Consider how natural 
and how plain it is ,  my dear ,  that it should be so .  You ,  
devoted and young ,  cannot fully appreciate the anxiety I 
have felt that your life should not be wasted  "  

She moved her hand towards his lips ,  but he took it in his ,  
and repeated the word .  

 "  — wasted ,  my child — should not be wasted ,  struck aside 
from the natural order of things — for my sake .  Your un -  
selfishness cannot entirely comprehend how much my mind 
has gone on this  ;  but ,  only ask yourself ,  how could my 
happiness be perfect ,  while yours was incomplete? "  

If I had never seen Charles ,  my father ,  I should have 
been quite happy with you .  "  

He smiled at her unconscious admission that she would 
have been unhappy without Charles ,  having seen him  ;  and 
replied : 

 " My child ,  you did see him ,  and it is Charles .  If it had 
not been Charles ,  it would have been another .  Or ,  if it had 
been no other ,  I should have been the cause ,  and then the 
dark part of my life would have cast its shadow beyond 
myself ,  and would have fallen on you .  "  

It was the first time ,  except at the trial ,  of her ever hear -  
ing him refer to the period of his suffering .  It gave her a 
strange and new sensation while his words were in her ears  ;  
and she remembered it long afterwards .  

 " See !  "  said the Doctor of Beauvais ,  raising his hand 
towards the moon .   "  I have looked at her from my prison -  
window ,  when I could not bear her light .  I have looked at 
her when it has been such torture to me to think of her 
shining upon what I had lost ,  that I have beaten my head 
against my prison - walls .  I have looked at her ,  in a state so 
dull and lethargic ,  that I have thought of nothing but the 
number of horizontal lines I could draw across her at the 
full ,  and the number of perpendicular lines with which 
I could intersect them .  "  He added in his inward and pon -  



214 A TALE OF TWO CITIES 

dering manner ,  as he looked at the moon ,   " It was twenty 
either way ,  I remember ,  and the twentieth was difficult to 
squeeze in .  "  

The strange thrill with which she heard him go back to 
that time ,  deepened as he dwelt upon it  ;  but ,  there was 
nothing to shock her in the manner of his reference .  He 
only seemed to contrast his present cheerfulness and felicity 
with the dire endurance that was over .  

• I have looked at her ,  speculating thousands of times upon 
the unborn child from whom I had been rent .   " Whether il 
was alive .  Whether it had been born alive ,  or the poor 
mothers shock had killed it .  Whether it was a son who 
would some day avenge his father .   ( There was a time in 
my imprisonment ,  when my desire for vengeance was un -  
bearable .  )  Whether it was a son who would never know his 
fathers story  ;  who might even live to weigh the possibility 
of his fathers having disappeared of his own will and act .  
Whether it was a daughter who would grow to be a woman .  "  

She drew closer to him .  and kissed his cheek and his 
hand .  

 "  I have pictured my daughter ,  to myself ,  as perfectly 
forgetful of me — rather ,  altogether ignorant of me .  and 
unconscious of me .  I have cast up the years of her age ,  year 
after year .  I have seen her married to a man who knew 
nothing of my fate .  I have altogether perished from the 
remembrance of the living ,  and in the next generation my 
place was a blank .  "  

 " My father !  Even to hear that you had such thoughts 
of a daughter who never existed ,  strikes to my heart as if 
I had been that child .  "  

 "  You ,  Lucie ? It is out of the consolation and restoration 
you have brought to me ,  that these remembrances arise ,  and 
pass between us and the moon on this last night .  — What did 
I say just now ?  "  

• She knew nothing of you .  She cared nothing for you .  "  

 "  So  !  But on other moonlight nights ,  when the sadness 
and the silence have touched me in a different way — have 
affected me with something as like a sorrowful sense of peace ,  
as any emotion that had pain for its foundations could — I 
have imagined her as coming to me in my cell ,  and leading 
me out into the freedom beyond the fortress .  I have seen 
her imago in the moonlight often ,  as I now see you : except 
that I never held her in my arms  ;  it stood between the little 



DARK PRISON - SHADOWS 215 

grated window and the door .  But .  you understand that that 
was not the child I am speaking of? "  

 " • The figure was not  ;  the — the — image  ;  the fancy ?  "  

 "  No .  That was another thing .  It stood before my dis -  
turbed sense of sight ,  but it never moved .  The phantom 
that my mind pursued ,  was another and more real child .  Of 
her outward appearance I know no more than that she was 
like her mother .  The other had that likeness too — as you 
have — but was not the same .  Can you follow me ,  Lucie ? 
Hardly ,  I think ? I doubt you must have been a solitary 
prisoner to understand these perplexed distinctions .  "  

His collected and calm manner could not prevent her 
blood from running cold ,  as he thus tried to anatomise his 
old condition .  

 " In that more peaceful state ,  I have imagined her .  in the 
moonlight ,  coming to me and taking me out to show me 
that the home of her married life was full of her loving 
remembrance of her lost father .  My picture was in her room ,  
and I was in her prayers .  Her life Mas active ,  cheerful ,  use -  
ful  ;  but my poor history pervaded it all .   "  

 " I was that child ,  my father .  I was not half so good ,  
but in my love that was I .  "  

 " And she showed me her children ,  "  said the Doctor of 
Beauvais ,   and they had heard of me ,  and had been taught 
to pity me .  When they passed a prison of the State ,  they 
kept far from its frowning walls ,  and looked up at its bars ,  
and spoke in whispers .  She could never deliver me  ;  I 
imagined that she always brought me back after showing me 
such things .  But then ,  blessed with the relief of tears ,  I 
fell upon my knees ,  and blessed her .  "  

 "  I am that child ,  I hope ,  my father .  O my dear ,  my 
dear ,  will you bless me as fervently to - morrow ?  "  

 "  Lucie ,  I recall these old troubles in the reason that I 
have to - night for loving you better than words can tell ,  and 
thanking God for my great happiness ,  My thoughts ,  when 
they were wildest ,  never rose near the happiness that I have 
known with you ,  and that we have before us .  "  

He embraced her ,  solemnly commended her to Heaven ,  
and humbly thanked Heaven for having bestowed her on 
him .  By - and - by ,  they went into the house .  

There was no one bidden to the marriage but Mr .  Lorry : 
there was even to be no bridesmaid but the gaunt Miss Pross .  
The marriage was to make no change in their place of 



2l6 A TALE OF TWO CITIES 

residence  ;  they had been able to extend it ,  by taking to 
themselves the upper rooms formerly belonging to the 
apocryphal invisible lodger ,  and they desired nothing more .  

Doctor Manette was very cheerful at the little supper .  
They were only three at table ,  and Miss Pross made the 
third .  He regretted that Charles was not there : was more 
than half disposed to object to the loving little plot that 
kept him away  ;  and drank to him affectionately .  

So ,  the time came for him to bid Lucie good night ,  and 
they separated .  But ,  in the stillness of the third hour of the 
morning ,  Lucie came down - stairs again ,  and stole into his 
room : not free from unshaped fears ,  beforehand .  

All things ,  however ,  were in their places  ;  all was quiet  ;  
and he lay asleep ,  his white hair picturesque on the un -  
troubled pillow ,  and his hands lying quiet on the coverlet .  
She put her needless candle in the shadow at a distance ,  
crept up to his bed ,  and put her lips to his : then ,  leaned 
over him ,  and looked at him .  

Into his handsome face ,  the bitter waters of captivity had 
worn  ;  but .  he covered up their tracks with a determination 
so strong ,  that he held the mastery of them even in his sleep .  
A more remarkable face in its quiet ,  resolute ,  and guarded 
struggle with an unseen assailant ,  was not to be beheld in 
all the wide dominions of sleep ,  that night .  

She timidly laid her hand on his dear breast ,  and put up 
a prayer that she might ever be as true to him as her love 
aspired to be ,  and as his sorrows deserved .  Then ,  she with -  
drew her hand ,  and kissed his lips once more ,  and went away .  
So ,  the sunrise came ,  and the shadows of the leaves of the 
plane - tree moved upon his face ,  as softly as her lips had 
moved in praying for him .  



CHAPTER XVIII 

NINE DAYS 

The marriage - day was shining brightly ,  and they were ready 
outside the closed door of the Doctors room ,  where he was 
speaking with Charles Darnay .  They were ready to go to 
church  ;  the beautiful bride ,  Mr .  Lorry ,  and Miss Pross — to 
whom the event ,  through a gradual process of reconcilement 
to the inevitable ,  would have been one of absolute bliss ,  but 
for the yet lingering consideration that her brother Solomon 
should have been the bridegroom .  

•And so ,  "  said Mr .  Lorry ,  who could not sufficiently 
admire the bride ,  and who had been moving round her to 
take in every point of her quiet ,  pretty dress ;   " and so it 
was for this ,  my sweet Lucie ,  that I brought you across the 
Channel ,  such a baby  !  Lord bless me  !  How little I thought 
what I was doing  !  How lightly I valued the obligation 
I was conferring on my friend Mr .  Charles  !   "  

 " You didnt mean it , * remarked the matter - of - fact Miss 
Pross ,   " and therefore how could you know it ? Nonsense  !   "  

 " Really? Well ;  but dont cry ,  "  said the gentle Mr .  
Lorry .  

 "  I am not crying ,  "  said Miss Pross  ;   "  you are .  "  

 " I ,  my Pross? "   ( By this time ,  Mr .  Lorry dared to be 
pleasant with her ,  on occasion .  )  

 "  You were ,  just now  ;  I saw you do it ,  and I dont wonder 
at it .  Such a present of plate as you have made em ,  is 
enough to bring tears into anybodys eyes .  Theres not a 
fork or a spoon in the collection ,  "  said Miss Pross ,   " that I 
didnt cry over ,  last night after the box came ,  till I couldnt 
see it .  "  

 " I am highly gratified ,  "  said Mr .  Lorry ,   " though ,  upon 
my honour ,  I had no intention of rendering those trifling 
articles of remembrance invisible to any one .  Dear me  !  
This is an occasion that makes a man speculate on all he 
has lost .  Dear ,  dear ,  dear  !  To think that there might 
have been a Mrs .  Lorry ,  any time these fifty years almost  !   "  



21 8 A TALE OF TWO CITIES 

 "  Not at all  !   "  From Miss Pross .  

 "  You think there never might have been a Mrs .  Lorry ?  "  
asked the gentleman of that name .  

 " Pooh !  "  rejoined Miss Pross ;   " you were a bachelor in 
your cradle .  "  

 " Well !  "  observed Mr .  Lorry ,  beamingly adjusting his 
little wig ,   " that seems probable ,  too .  "  

 "  And you were cut out for a bachelor ,  "  pursued Miss 
Pross ,   "  before you were put in your cradle .  "  

 " Then ,  I think ,  "  said Mr .  Lorry ,   " that I was very un -  
handsomely dealt with ,  and that I ought to have had a voice 
in the selection of my pattern .  Enough  !  Now ,  my dear 
Lucie ,  "  drawing his arm soothingly round her waist ,   "  I hear 
them moving in the next room ,  and Miss Pross and I ,  as 
two formal folks of business ,  are anxious not to lose the final 
opportunity of saying something to you that you wish to 
hear .  You leave your good father ,  my dear ,  in hands as 
earnest and as loving as your own  ;  he shall be taken every 
conceivable care of  ;  during the next fortnight ,  while you 
are in Warwickshire and thereabouts ,  even Tellsons shall 
go to the wall  ( comparatively speaking )  before him .  And 
when ,  at the fortnights end ,  he comes to join you and your 
beloved husband ,  on your other fortnights trip in Wales ,  
you shall say that we have sent him to you in the best 
health and in the happiest frame .  Now I hear Somebodys 
step coming to the door .  Let me kiss my dear girl with an 
old - fashioned bachelor blessing ,  before Somebody comes to 
claim his own .  "  

For a moment ,  he held the fair face from him to look at 
the well - remembered expression on the forehead ,  and then 
laid the bright golden hair against his little brown wig ,  with 
a genuine tenderness and delicacy which ,  if such things be 
old - fashioned ,  were as old as Adam .  

The door of the Doctors room opened ,  and he came out 
with Charles Darnay .  He was so deadly pale — which had 
not been the case when they went in together — that no 
vestige of colour was to be seen in his face .  But .  in the 
composure of his manner he was unaltered ,  except that to 
the shrewd glance of Mr .  Lorry it disclosed some shadowy 
indication that the old air of avoidance and dread had lately 
passed over him ,  like a cold wind .  

He gave his arm to his daughter ,  and took her down -  
stairs to the chariot which Mr .  Lorry had hired in honour 



A HARD PARTING 219 

of the day .  The rest followed in another carriage ,  and 
soon ,  in a neighbouring church ,  where no strange eyes 
looked on ,  Charles Darnay and Lucie Manette were happily 
married .  

Besides the glancing tears that shone among the smiles of 
the little group when it was done ,  some diamonds ,  very 
bright and sparkling ,  glanced on the brides hand ,  which 
were newly released from the dark obscurity of one of 
Mr .  Lorrys pockets .  They returned home to breakfast ,  and 
all went well ,  and in due course the golden hair that had 
mingled with the poor shoemakers white locks in the Paris 
garret ,  were mingled with them again in the morning sun -  
light ,  on the threshold of the door at parting .  

It was a hard parting ,  though it was not for long .  But 
her father cheered her ,  and said at last ,  gently disengaging 
himself from her enfolding arms ,   "  Take her ,  Charles  !  She 
is yours  !   "  

And her agitated hand waved to them from a chaise 
window ,  and she was gone .  

The corner being out of the way of the idle and curious ,  
and the preparations having been very simple and few ,  the 
Doctor ,  Mr .  Lorry ,  and Miss Pross ,  were left quite alone .  It 
was when they turned into the welcome shade of the cool old 
hall ,  that Mr .  Lorry observed a great change to have come 
over the Doctor  ;  as if the golden arm uplifted there ,  had 
struck him a poisoned blow .  

He had naturally repressed much ,  and some revulsion 
might have been expected in him when the occasion for 
repression was gone .  But ,  it was the old scared lost look 
that troubled Mr .  Lorry  ;  and through his absent manner of 
clasping his head and drearily wandering away into his own 
room when they got up - stairs ,  Mr .  Lorry was reminded of 
Defarge the wine - shop keeper ,  and the starlight ride .  

 "  I think ,  "  he whispered to Miss Pross ,  after anxious con -  
sideration ,  I think we had best not speak to him just now ,  
or at all disturb him .  I must look in at Tellsons  ;  so I will 
go there at once and come back presently .  Then ,  we will 
take him a ride into the country ,  and dine there ,  and all 
will be well .  "  

It was easier for Mr .  Lorry to look in at Tellsons ,  than 
to look out of Tellsons .  He was detained two hours .  
When he came back ,  he ascended the old staircase alone ,  
having asked no question of the servant  ;  going thus into 



220 A TALE OF TWO CITIES 

the Doctors rooms ,  he was stopped by a low sound of 
knocking .  

 "  Good God  !   "  he said ,  with a start .   "  Whats that ?  "  

Miss Pross ,  with a terrified face ,  was at his ear .   "   (  )  me ,  
me  !  All is lost  !   "  cried she ,  wringing her hands .   " What 
is to be told to Ladybird ? He doesnt know me ,  and is 
making shoes  !   "  

Mr .  Lorry said what he could to calm her ,  and went him -  
self into the Doctors room .  The bench was turned towards 
the light ,  as it had been when he had seen the shoemaker at 
his work before ,  and his head was bent down ,  and he was 
very busy .  

 "  Doctor Manette .  My dear friend ,  Doctor Manet te  !   "  

The Doctor looked at him for a moment — half inquiringly ,  
half as if he were angry at being spoken to — and bent over 
his work again .  

He had laid aside his coat and waistcoat  ;  his shirt Mas 
open at the throat ,  as it used to be when he did that work  ;  
and even the old haggard ,  faded surface of face had come 
back to him .  He worked hard — impatiently — as if in some 
sense of having been interrupted .  

Mr .  Lorry glanced at the work in his hand ,  and observed 
that it was a shoe of the old size and shape .  He took up 
another that was lying by him ,  and asked what it was ? 

 " A young ladys walking shoe ,  "  he muttered ,  without 
looking up .   "  It ought to have been finished long ago .  Let 
it be .  "  

 "  But ,  Doctor Manette .  Look at me  !   "  

He obeyed ,  in the old mechanically submissive manner ,  
without pausing in his work .  

 "  You know me ,  my dear friend ? Think again .  This is 
not your proper occupation .  Think ,  dear friend  !   "  

Nothing would induce him to speak more .  He looked up ,  
for an instant at a time ,  when he was requested to do so  ;  
but .  no persuasion would extract a word from him .  He 
worked ,  and worked ,  and worked ,  in silence ,  and words fell 
on him as they would have fallen on an echoless wall ,  or on 
the air .  The only ray of hope that Mr .  Lorry could discover ,  
was .  that he sometimes furtively looked up without being 
asked .  In that ,  there seemed a faint expression of curiosity 
or perplexity — as though he were trying to reconcile some 
doubts in his mind .  

Two things at once impressed themselves on Mr .  Lorry ,  as 



MR .  LORRY KEEPS WATCH 221 

important above all others  ;  the first ,  that this must be kept 
secret from Lucie  ;  the second that it must be kept secret 
from all who knew him .  In conjunction with Miss Pross ,  he 
took immediate steps towards the latter precaution ,  by giving 
out that the Doctor was not well ,  and required a few days of 
complete rest .  In aid of the kind deception to be practised 
on his daughter ,  Miss Pross was to write ,  describing his 
having been called away professionally ,  and referring to an 
imaginary letter of two or three hurried lines in his own 
hand ,  represented to have been addressed to her by the same 
post .  

These measures ,  advisable to be taken in any case ,  
Mr .  Lorry took in the hope of his coming to himself .  If 
that should happen soon ,  he kept another course in reserve  ;  
which was .  to have a certain opinion that he thought the 
best ,  on the Doctors case .  

In the hope of his recovery ,  and of resort to this third 
course being thereby rendered practicable ,  Mr .  Lorry resolved 
to watch him attentively ,  with as little appearance as possible 
of doing so .  He therefore made arrangements to absent 
himself from Tellsons for the first time in his life ,  and took 
his post by the window in the same room .  

He was not long in discovering that it was worse than 
useless to speak to him ,  since ,  on being pressed ,  he became 
worried .  He abandoned that attempt on the first day ,  and 
resolved merely to keep himself always before him ,  as 
a silent protest against the delusion into which he had 
fallen ,  or was falling .  He remained ,  therefore ,  in his seat 
near the window ,  reading and writing ,  and expressing in as 
many pleasant and natural ways as he could think of ,  that 
it was a free place .  

Doctor Manette took what was given him to eat and 
drink ,  and worked on ,  that first day ,  until it was too dark 
to see — worked on ,  half an hour after Mr .  Lorry could not 
have seen ,  for his life ,  to read or write .  When he put his 
tools aside as useless ,  until morning ,  Mr .  Lorry rose and said 
to him : 

 " Will you go out? "  

He looked down at the floor on either side of him in the 
old manner ,  looked up in the old manner ,  and repeated in 
the old low voice : 

 " Out? "  

 "  Yes  ;  for a walk with me .  Whv not ?  "  



222 A TALE OF TWO CITIES 

He made no effort to say why not ,  and said not a word 
more .  But ,  Mr .  Lorry thought he saw ,  as he leaned forward 
on his bench in the dusk ,  with his elbows on his knees and 
his head in his hands ,  that he was in some misty way 
Asking himself ,   "  Why not ?  "  The sagacity of the man of 
business perceived an advantage here ,  and determined to 
hold it .  

Miss Pross and he divided the night into two watches ,  
and observed him at intervals from the adjoining room .  He 
paced up and down for a long time before he lay down  ;  
but ,  when he did finally lay himself down ,  he fell asleep .  
In the morning ,  he was up betimes ,  and went straight to his 
bench and to work .  

On this second day ,  Mr .  Lorry saluted him cheerfully by 
his name ,  and spoke to him on topics that had been of late 
familiar to them .  He returned no reply ,  but it was evident 
that he heard what was said ,  and that he thought about it ,  
however confusedly .  This encouraged Mr .  Lorry to have 
Miss Pross in with her work ,  several times during the day  ;  
at those times ,  they quietly spoke of Lucie ,  and of her father 
then present ,  precisely in the usual manner ,  and as if there 
were nothing amiss .  This was done without any demon -  
sti - ative accompaniment ,  not long enough ,  or often enough 
to harass him  ;  and it lightened Mr .  Lorrys friendly heart 
to believe that he looked up oftener ,  and that he appeared to 
be stirred by some perception of inconsistencies surrounding 
him .  

When it fell dark again ,  Mr .  Lorry asked him as before : 

 "  Dear Doctor ,  will you go out ?  "  

As before ,  he repeated ,  • Out ?  "  

> ;  Yes  ;  for a walk with me .  Why not ?  "  

This time ,  Mr .  Lorry feigned to go out when he could 
extract no answer from him ,  and .  after remaining absent for 
an hour ,  returned .  In the meanwhile ,  the Doctor had 
removed to the seat in the window ,  and had sat there 
looking down at the plane - tree  ;  but ,  on Mr .  Lurrys return ,  
he slipped away to his bench .  

The time went very slowly on ,  and Mr .  Lorrys hope 
darkened ,  and his heart grew heavier again ,  and grew yet 
heavier and heavier every day .  The third day came and 
went ,  the fourth ,  the fifth .  Five days ,  six days ,  seven days ,  
eight days ,  nine days .  

With a hope ever darkening ,  and with a heart always 



AN ANXIOUS TIME 223 

growing heavier and heavier ,  Mr .  Lorry passed through this 
anxious time .  The secret was well kept ,  and Lucie was 
unconscious and happy  ;  hut he could not fail to observe 
that the shoemaker ,  whose hand had been a little out at 
first ,  was growing dreadfully skilful ,  and that he had never 
been so intent on his work ,  and that his hands had never 
been so nimble and expert ,  as in the dusk of the ninth 
evening .  



CHAPTER XIX 

AN OPINION 

Worn out by anxious watching ,  Mr .  Lorry fell asleep at his 
post .  On the tenth morning of his suspense ,  he was startled 
by the shining of the sun into the room where a heavy 
slumber had overtaken him when it was dark night .  

He rubbed his eyes and roused himself ;  but he doubted ,  
when he had done so ,  whether he was not still asleep .  For ,  
going to the door of the Doctors room and looking in ,  he 
perceived that the shoemakers bench and tools were put 
aside again ,  and that the Doctor himself sat reading at the 
window .  He was in his usual morning dress ,  and his face 
 ( which Mr .  Lorry could distinctly see )  ,  though still very pale ,  
was calmly studious and attentive .  

Even when he had satisfied himself that he was awake ,  
Mr .  Lorry felt giddily uncertain for some few moments 
whether the late shoemaking might not be a disturbed dream 
of his own  ;  for ,  did not his eyes show him his friend before 
him in his accustomed clothing and aspect ,  and employed as 
usual  ;  and was there any sign within their range ,  that the 
change of which he had so strong an impression had actually 
happened ? 

It was but the inquiry of his first confusion and astonish -  
ment ,  the answer being obvious .  If the impression were 
not produced by a real corresponding and sufficient cause ,  
how came he ,  Jarvis Lorry ,  there ? How came he to have 
fallen asleep ,  in his clothes ,  on the sofa in Dr .  Manettes con -  
sulting - room ,  and to be debating these points outside the 
Doctors bedroom door in the early morning ? 

Within a few minutes .  Miss Pross stood whispering at 
his side .  If he had had any particle of doubt left ,  her talk 
would of necessity have resolved it  ;  but he was by that 
time clear - headed ,  and had none .  He advised that they 
should let the time go by until the regular breakfast - hour ,  
and should then meet the Doctor as if nothing unusual had 



CONSULTATION WITH THE DOCTOR 225 

occurred .  If he appeared to be in his customary state of 
mind ,  Mr .  Lorry would then cautiously proceed to seek 
direction and guidance from the opinion he had been ,  in his 
anxiety ,  so anxious to obtain .  

Miss Pross submitting herself to his judgment ,  the scheme 
was worked out with care .  Having abundance of time for 
his usual methodical toilette ,  Mr .  Lorry presented himself 
at the breakfast - hour in his usual white linen ,  and with his 
usual neat leg .  The Doctor was summoned in the usual 
way ,  and came to breakfast .  

So far as it was possible to comprehend him without over -  
stepping those delicate and gradual approaches which Mr .  
Lorry felt to be the only safe advance ,  he at first supposed 
that his daughters marriage had taken place yesterday .  
An incidental allusion ,  purposely thrown out .  to the day 
of the week ,  and the day of the month ,  set him thinking 
and counting ,  and evidently made him uneasy .  In all 
other respects ,  however ,  he was so composedly himself ,  
that Mr .  Lorry determined to have the aid he sought .  
And that aid was his own .  

Therefore ,  when the breakfast was done and cleared away ,  
and he and the Doctor were left together ,  Mr .  Lorry said ,  
feelingly : 

 "  My dear Manette ,  I am anxious to have your opinion ,  
in confidence ,  on a very curious case in which I am deeply 
interested : that is to say ,  it is very curious to me  ;  perhaps ,  
to your better information it may be less so .  "  

Glancing at his hands ,  which were discoloured by his late 
work ,  the Doctor looked troubled ,  and listened attentively .  
He had already glanced at his hands more than once .  

 " Doctor Manette ,  "  said Mr .  Lorry ,  touching him affection -  
ately on the arm ,   "  the case is the case of a particularly dear 
friend of mine .  Pray give your mind to it ,  and advise me 
well for his sake — and above all ,  for his daughters — his 
daughters ,  my dear Manette .  "  

 " If I understand ,  "  said the Doctor ,  in a subdued tone ,  
•some mental shock ? "  

 "  Yes  !   "  

* Be explicit ,  "  said the Doctor .   "  Spare no detail .  "  

Mr .  Lorry saw that they understood one another ,  and 
proceeded .  

 "  My dear Manette ,  it is the case of an old and a pro -  
longed shock ,  of great acuteness and severity to the affections ,  
1 .  H 



226 A TALE OF TWO CITIES 

the feelings ,  the — the — as you express it — the mind .  The 
mind .  It is the case of a shock under which the sufferer was 
borne down ,  one cannot say for how long ,  because I believe 
he cannot calculate the time himself ,  and there are no other 
means of getting at it .  It is the case of a shock from 
which the sufferer recovered ,  by a process that he cannot trace 
himself — as I once heard him publicly relate in a striking 
manner .  It is the case of a shock from which he has 
recovered ,  so completely ,  as to be a highly intelligent man ,  
capable of close application of mind ,  and great exertion of 
body ,  and of constantly making fresh additions to his stock 
of knowledge ,  which was already very large .  But ,  unfor -  
tunately ,  there has been  "  — he paused and took a deep breath 
—  " a slight relapse .  "  

The Doctor ,  in a low voice ,  asked ,   "  Of how long 
duration ?  "  

 " Nine days and nights .  "  

 "  How did it show itself? I infer ,  "  glancing at his hands 
again ,   " in the resumption of some old pursuit connected 
with the shock ?  "  

 "  That is the fact .  "  

 "  Now ,  did you ever see him ,  "  asked the Doctor ,  distinctly 
and collectedly ,  though in the same low voice ,   "  engaged in 
that pursuit originally ?  "  

 " Once .  "  

 " And when the relapse fell on him ,  was he in most 
respects — or in all respects — as he was then ?  "  

 "  I think in all respects .  "  

 "  You spoke of his daughter .  Does his daughter know of 
the relapse ?  "  

 "  No .  It has been kept from her ,  and I hope will always 
he kept from her .  It is known only to myself ,  and to one 
other who may be trusted .  "  

The Doctor grasped his hand ,  and murmured ,   "  That was 
very kind .  That was very thoughtful  !   "  Mr .  Lorry grasped 
his hand in return ,  and neither of the two spoke for a little 
while .  

 "  Now ,  my dear Manette ,  "  said Mr .  Lorry ,  at length ,  in 
his most considerate and most affectionate way ,   "  I am 
a mere man of business ,  and unfit to cope with such intricate 
and difficult matters .  I do not possess the kind of informa -  
tion necessary  ;  I do not possess the kind of intelligence  ;  
I want guiding .  There is no man in this world on whom 



MR .  LORRY NEEDS GUIDANCE 227 

I could so rely for right g - uidance ,  as on you .  Tell me ,  how 
does this relapse come about ? Is there danger of another? 
Could a repetition of it be prevented ? How should a repeti -  
tion of it be treated ? How does it come about at all ? 
What can I do for my friend? No man ever can have 
been more desirous in his heart to serve a friend ,  than I am 
to serve mine ,  if I knew how .  But I dont know how to 
originate ,  in such a case .  If your sagacity ,  knowledge ,  and 
experience ,  could put me on the right track ,  I might be 
able to do so much  ;  unenlightened and undirected ,  I can do 
so little .  Pray discuss it with me  ;  pray enable me to see 
it a little more clearly ,  and teach me how to be a little 
more useful .  "  

Doctor Manette sat meditating after these earnest words 
were spoken ,  and Mr .  Lorry did not press him .  

 " I think it probable ,  "  said the Doctor ,  breaking silence 
with an effort ,   "  that the relapse you have described ,  my dear 
friend ,  was not quite unforeseen by its subject .  "  

 "  Was it dreaded by him ?  "  Mr .  Lorry ventured to ask .  

 " Very much .  "  He said it with an involuntary shudder .  

 "  You have no idea how such an apprehension weighs on 
the sufferers mind ,  and how difficult — how almost impossible 
— it is ,  for him to force himself to utter a word upon the 
topic that oppresses him .  "  

 " Would he ,  "  asked Mr .  Lorry ,   "  be sensibly relieved if he 
could prevail upon himself to impart that secret brooding to 
any one ,  when it is on him ?  "  

 " I think so .  But it is ,  as I have told you ,  next to 
impossible .  I even believe it — in some cases — to be quite 
impossible .  "  

 "  Now ,  "  said Mr .  Lorry ,  gently laying his hand on the 
Doctors arm again ,  after a short silence on both sides ,   "  to 
what would you refer this attack ?  "  

 " I believe ,  "  returned Doctor Manette ,   " that there had 
been a strong and extraordinary revival of the train of 
thought and remembrance that was the first cause of the 
malady .  Some intense associations of a most distressing 
nature were vividly recalled ,  I think .  It is probable that 
there had long been a dread lurking in his mind ,  that those 
associations would be recalled — say ,  under certain circum -  
stances — say ,  on a particular occasion .  He tried to prepare 
himself in vain  ;  perhaps the effort to prepare himself made 
him less able to bear it .  "  



228 A TALE OF TWO CITIES 

 " Would he remember what took place in the relapse? "  
asked Mr .  Lorry ,  with natural hesitation .  

The Doctor looked desolately round the room ,  shook his 
head ,  and answered ,  in a low voice .  Not at all .  "  

 " Now ,  as to the future ,  "  hinted Mr .  Lorry .  

 "  As to the future ,  "  said the Doctor ,  recovering firmness ,  
 " I should have great hope .  As it pleased Heaven in its 
mercy to restore him so soon ,  I should have great hope .  He ,  
yielding under the pressure of a complicated something ,  long 
dreaded and long vaguely foreseen and contended against ,  and 
recovering after the cloud had burst and passed .  I should 
hope that the worst was over .  "  

 " Well ,  well !  Thats good comfort .  I am thankful !  "  
said Mr .  Lorry .  

 " I am thankful  !   "  repeated the Doctor ,  bending his head 
with reverence .  

 " There are two other points ,  "  said Mr .  Loriy .   " on which 
I am anxious to be instructed .  I may go on ?  "  

 "  You cannot do your friend a better service .  "  The Doctor 
gave him his hand .  

 " To the first ,  then .  He is of a studious habit ,  and 
unusually energetic  ;  he applies himself with great ardour to 
the acquisition of professional knowledge ,  to the conducting 
of experiments ,  to many things .  Now ,  does he do too 
much ?  "  

 " I think not .  It may be the character of his mind ,  to be 
always in singular need of occupation .  That may be ,  in part ,  
natural to it  ;  in part ,  the result of affliction .  The less it was 
occupied with healthy things ,  the more it would be in danger 
of turning in the unhealthy direction .  He may have observed 
himself ,  and made the discovery .  "  

 "  You are sure that he is not under too great a strain ?  "  

 "  I think I am quite sure of it .  "  

• My dear Manette ,  if he were overworked now  "  

 "  My dear Lorry ,  I doubt if that could easily be .  There 
has been a violent stress in one direction ,  and it needs 
a counterweight .  "  

Excuse me ,  as a persistent man of business .  Assuming 
for a moment ,  that be was overworked : it would show itself 
in some renewal of this disorder ?  "  

 " I do not think so .  I do not think .  "  said Doctor Manette 
with the firmness of self - conviction ,   "  that anything but the 
one train of association would renew it .  I think that ,  hence -  



THE SACRIFICE OF AN OLD COMPANION 229 

forth ,  nothing but some extraordinary jarring of that chord 
could renew it .  After what has happened ,  and after his 
recovery ,  I find it difficult to imagine any such violent 
sounding of that string again .  I trust ,  and I almost believe ,  
that the circumstances likely to renew it are exhausted .  "  

He spoke with the diffidence of a man who knew how 
slight a thing would overset the delicate organisation of the 
mind ,  and yet with the confidence of a man who had slowly 
won his assurance out of personal endurance and distress .  
It was not for his friend to abate that confidence .  He pro -  
fessed himself more relieved and encouraged than he really 
was ,  and approached his second and last point .  He felt it 
to be the most difficult of all ;  but ,  remembering his old 
Sunday morning conversation with Miss Pross .  and remem -  
bering what he had seen in the last nine days ,  he knew that 
he must face it .  

 " The occupation resumed under the influence of this 
passing affliction so happily recovered from ,  "  said Mr .  Lorry ,  
clearing his throat ,   " we will call— Blacksmiths work .  Black -  
smiths work .  We will say ,  to put a case and for the sake 
of illustration ,  that he had been used ,  in his bad time ,  to 
work at a little forge .  We will say that he was unexpectedly 
found at his forge again .  Is it not a pity that he should 
keep it by him ?  "  

The Doctor shaded his forehead with his hand ,  and beat 
his foot nervously on the ground .  

 "  He has always kept it by him ,  "  said Mr .  Lorry ,  with an 
anxious look at his friend .   "  Now ,  would it not be better 
that he should let it go? "  

Still ,  the Doctor ,  with shaded forehead ,  beat his foot 
nervously on the ground .  

• You do not find it easy to advise me ?  "  said Mr .  Lorry .  
 "  I quite understand it to be a nice question .  And yet 
I think  "  And there he shook his head ,  and stopped .  

 " You see ,  "  said Doctor Manette ,  turning to him after an 
uneasy pause ,   " it is very hard to explain ,  consistently ,  the 
innermost workings of this poor mans mind .  He once 
yearned so frightfully for that occupation ,  and it was so 
welcome when it came  ;  no doubt it relieved his pain so 
much ,  by substituting the perplexity of the fingers for the 
perplexity of the brain ,  and by substituting ,  as he became 
more practised ,  the ingenuity of the hands ,  for the ingenuity 
of the mental torture  ;  that he has never been able to bear 



230 A TALE OF TWO CITIES 

the thought of putting it quite out of his reach .  Even now ,  
when I believe he is more hopeful of himself than he has ever 
been ,  and even speaks of himself with a kind of confidence ,  
the idea that he might need that old employment ,  and not 
find it ,  gives him a sudden sense of terror ,  like that which 
one may fancy strikes to the heart of a lost child .  "  

He looked like his illustration ,  as he raised his eyes to 
Mr .  Lorrys face .  

 "  But may not — mind  !  I ask for information ,  as a plodding 
man of business who only deals with such material objects as 
guineas ,  shillings ,  and bank - notes — may not the retention of 
the thing involve the retention of the idea? If the thing 
were gone ,  my dear Manette ,  might not the fear go with it ? 
In short ,  is it not a concession to the misgiving ,  to keep the 
forge ?  "  

There was another silence .  

You see ,  too ,  "  said the Doctor ,  tremulously ,   " it is such 
an old companion .  "  

 " I would not keep it ,  "  said Mr .  Lorry ,  shaking his head  ;  
for he gained in firmness as he saw the Doctor disquieted .  
 "  I would recommend him to sacrifice it .  I only want your 
authority .  I am sure it does no good .  Come  !  Give me 
your authority ,  like a dear good man .  For his daughters 
sake ,  my dear Manette  !   "  

Very strange to see what a struggle there was within 
him  !  

 "  In her name ,  then ,  let it be done  ;  I sanction it .  But .  
I would not take it away while he was present .  Let it be 
removed when he is not there  ;  let him miss his old companion 
after an absence .  "  

Mr .  Lorry readily engaged for that ,  and the conference 
was ended .  They passed the day in the country ,  and the 
Doctor was quite restored .  On the three following days he 
remained perfectly well ,  and on the fourteenth day he went 
away to join Lucie and her husband .  The precaution that 
had been taken to account for his silence .  Mr .  Lorry had 
previously explained to him ,  and he had written to Lucie in 
accordance with it ,  and she had no suspicions .  

On the night of the day on which he left the house ,  
Mr .  Lorry went into his room with a chopper ,  saw ,  chisel ,  
and hammer ,  attended by Miss Pross carrying a light .  
There ,  with closed doors ,  and in a mysterious and guilty 
manner ,  Mr .  Lorry hacked the shoemakers bench to pieces ,  



W - a: /  .  




THE IDOL DESTROYED 233 

while Miss Pross held the candle as if she were assisting at 
a murder — for which ,  indeed ,  in her grimness ,  she was no 
unsuitable figure .  The burning of the body  ( previously 
reduced to pieces convenient for the purpose )  was commenced 
without delay in the kitchen fire  ;  and the tools ,  shoes ,  and 
leather ,  were buried in the garden .  So wicked do destruc -  
tion and secrecy appear to honest minds ,  that Mr .  Lorry and 
Miss Pross ,  while engaged in the commission of their deed 
and in the removal of its traces ,  almost felt ,  and almost 
looked ,  like accomplices in a horrible crime .  






I .  H 3 



CHAPTER XX 

A PLEA 

When the newly - married pair came home ,  the first person 
who appeared ,  to offer his congratulations ,  was Sydney 
Carton .  They had not been at home many hours ,  when he 
presented himself .  He was not improved in habits ,  or in 
looks ,  or in manner  ;  but there was a certain rugged air 
of fidelity about him ,  which was new to the observation of 
Charles Darnay .  

He watched his opportunity of taking Darnay aside into 
a window ,  and of speaking to him when no one overheard .  

 "  Mr .  Darnay ,  "  said Carton .   "  I wish we might be friends .  "  

 "  We are already friends ,  I hope .  "  

 "  You are good enough to say so ,  as a fashion of speech  ;  
but ,  I dont mean any fashion of speech .  Indeed ,  when 
I say I wish we might be friends ,  I scarcely mean quite 
that ,  either .  "  

Charles Darnay — as was natural — asked him .  in all good -  
humour and good - fellowship ,  what he did mean ? 

 "  Upon my life ,  "  said Carton ,  smiling ,    ;  I find that easier 
to comprehend in my own mind ,  than to convey to yours .  
However ,  let me try .  You remember a certain famous 
occasion when I was more drunk than — than usual? "  

 "  I remember a certain famous occasion when you forced 
me to confess that you had been drinking .  "  

 I remember it too .  The curse of those occasions is heavy 
upon me ,  for I always remember them .  I hope it may be 
taken into account one day ,  when all days are at an end for 
me  !  Dont be alarmed  ;  I am not going to preach .  "  

 "  I am not at all alarmed .  Earnestness in you is any -  
thing but alarming to me .  "  

 "  Ah  !   "  said Carton ,  with a careless wave of his hand ,  
as if he waved that away .   "  On the drunken occasion in 
question  ( one of a large number ,  as you know )  ,  I Avas in -  
sufferable about liking you ,  and not liking you .  I wish you 
would forget it .  "  



CAKTON DESCRIBES HIMSELF 235 

 " I forgot it long ago .  "  

• Fashion of speech again  !  But ,  Mr .  Darnay ,  oblivion is 
not so easy to me ,  as you represent it to be to you .  I have 
by no means forgotten it ,  and a light answer does not help 
me to forget it .  "  

• If it was a light answer ,  "  returned Darnay ,   "  I beg your 
forgiveness for it .  I had no other object than to turn a 
slight thing ,  which ,  to my surprise ,  seems to trouble you 
too much ,  aside .  I declare to you on the faith of a gentle -  
man ,  that I have long dismissed it from my mind .  Good 
Heaven ,  what was there to dismiss  !  Have I had nothing 
more important to remember ,  in the great service you 
rendered me that day ?  "  

 " As to the great service ,  "  said Carton ,  I am bound to 
avow to you ,  when you speak of it in that way ,  that it was 
mere professional claptrap .  I dont know that I cared what 
became of you ,  when I rendered it .  — Mind  !  I say when 
I rendered it  ;  I am speaking of the past .  "  

 " You make light of the obligation ,  "  returned Darnay ,  
but I will not quarrel with your light answer .  "  

 "  Genuine truth ,  Mr .  Darnay ,  trust me  !  I have gone 
aside from my purpose  ;  I was speaking about our being 
friends .  Now ,  you know me  ;  you know I am incapable 
of all the higher and better flights of men .  If you doubt 
it ,  ask Stryver ,  and hell tell you so .  "  

 "  I prefer to form my own opinion ,  without the aid of his .  "  

 Well  !  At any rate you know me as a dissolute dog .  
who has never done any good ,  and never will .  "  

 "  I dont know that you  never will .   "  

 "  But I do ,  and you must take my word for it .  Well  !  
If you could endure to have such a worthless fellow ,  and 
a fellow of such indifferent reputation ,  coming and going 
at odd times ,  I should ask that I might be permitted to 
come and go as a privileged person here  ;  that I might be 
regarded as an useless  ( and I would add ,  if it were not for 
the resemblance I detected between you and me )  ,  an un -  
ornamental ,  piece of furniture ,  tolerated for its old service ,  
and taken no notice of .  I doubt if I should abuse the per -  
mission .  It is a hundred to one if I should avail myself 
of it four times in a year .  It would satisfy me ,  I dare say ,  
to know that I had it .  "  

 "  Will you try ?  "  

 "  That is another way of saying that I am placed on tho 



236 A TALE OF TWO CITIES 

footing I have indicated .  I thank you ,  Darnay .  I may use 
that freedom with your name ?  "  

I think so .  Carton ,  by this time .  "  

They shook hands upon it ,  and Sydney turned away .  
Within a minute afterwards ,  he was .  to all outward appear -  
ance ,  as unsubstantial as ever .  

When he was gone ,  and in the course of an evening passed 
with Miss Pross ,  the Doctor ,  and Mr .  Lorry .  Charles Darnay 
made some mention of this conversation in general terms ,  
and spoke of Sydney Carton as a problem of carelessness and 
recklessness .  He spoke of him .  in short ,  not bitterly or 
meaning to bear hard upon him .  but as anybody might who 
saw him as he showed himself .  

He had no idea that this could dwell in the thoughts of 
his fair young wife  ;  but ,  when he afterwards joined her in 
their own rooms ,  he found her waiting for him with the old 
pretty lifting of the forehead strongly marked .  

 " We are thoughtful to - night  !   "  said Darnay ,  drawing his 
arm about her .  

 " Yes ,  dearest Charles .  "  with her hands on his breast ,  and 
the inquiring and attentive expression fixed upon him :  "  we 
are rather thoughtful to - night ,  for we have something on 
our mind to - night .  "  

 " What is it .  my Lucie? "  

 " Will you promise not to press one question on me ,  if 
I beg you not to ask it ?  "  

 "  Will I promise ? What will I not promise to my Love? "  

What ,  indeed ,  with his hand putting aside the golden 
hair from the cheek ,  and his other hand against the heart 
that beat for him  !  

 "  I think ,  Charles ,  poor Mr .  Carton deserves more con -  
sideration and respect than you expressed for him to - night .  "  

 "  Indeed ,  my own ? Why so ? * 

 "  That is what you are not to ask me ? But I think — 
I know — he does .  "  

 "  If you know it ,  it is enough .  What would you have 
me do ,  my Life ?  "  

 "  I would ask you ,  dearest ,  to be very generous with 
him always ,  and very lenient on his faults when he is not 
by .  I would ask you to believe that he lias a heart he very ,  
very seldom reveals ,  and that there are deep wounds in it .  
My dear ,  I have seen it bleeding .  "  

*• It is a painful reflection to me ,  "  said Charles Darnay .  



SYMPATHY FOR POOR CARTON 237 

quite astounded ,   "  that I should have done him any wrong .  
I never thought this of him .  "  

 "  My husband ,  it is so .  I fear he is not to be reclaimed  ;  
there is scarcely a hope that anything in his character or 
fortunes is reparable now .  But ,  I am sure that he is capable 
of good things ,  gentle things ,  even magnanimous things .  "  

She looked so beautiful in the purity of her faith in this 
lost man ,  that her husband could have looked at her as she 
was for hours .  

 " And ,  O my dearest Love !  "  she urged ,  clinging nearer 
to him ,  laying her head upon his breast ,  and raising her 
eyes to his ,   "  remember how strong we are in our happiness ,  
and how weak he is in his misery  !   "  

The supplication touched him home .   "  I will always 
remember it ,  dear Heart  !  I will remember it as long as 
I live .  "  

He bent over the golden head ,  and put the rosy lips to 
his ,  and folded her in his arms .  If one forlorn wanderer 
then pacing the dark streets ,  could have heard her innocent 
disclosure ,  and could have seen the drops of pity kissed 
away by her husband from the soft blue eyes so loving of 
that husband ,  he might have cried to the night — and the 
words would not have parted from his lips for the first 
time — 

 "  God bless her for her sweet compassion  !   "  



CHAPTER XXI 

ECHOING FOOTSTEPS 

A wonderful corner for echoes ,  it has been remarked ,  that 
corner where the Doctor lived .  Ever busily winding the 
golden thread which bound her husband ,  and her father ,  
and herself ,  and her old directress and companion ,  in a life 
of quiet bliss ,  Lucie sat in the still house in the tranquilly 
resounding corner ,  listening to the echoing footsteps of 
years .  

At first ,  there were times ,  though she was a perfectly happy 
young wife ,  when her work would slowly fall from her hands ,  
and her eyes would be dimmed .  For ,  there was something 
coming in the echoes ,  something light ,  afar off ,  and scarcely 
audible vet .  that stirred her heart too much .  Fluttering 
hopes and doubts — hope ,  of a love as yet unknown to her : 
doubts ,  of her remaining upon earth ,  to enjoy that new 
delight — divided her breast .  Among the echoes then ,  there 
would arise the sound of footsteps at her own early grave  ;  
and thoughts of the husband who would be left so desolate ,  
and who would mourn for her so much ,  swelled to her eyes ,  
and broke like waves .  

That time passed ,  and her little Lucie lay on her bosom .  
Then ,  among the advancing echoes ,  there was the tread of 
her tiny feet and the sound of her prattling words .  Let 
greater echoes resound as they would ,  the young mother at 
the cradle side could always hear those coming .  They came ,  
and the shady house was sunny with a childs laugh ,  and 
the Divine friend of children ,  to whom in her trouble she 
had confided hers ,  seemed to take her child in His arms ,  as 
He took the child of old ,  and made it a sacred joy to her .  

Ever busily winding the golden thread that bound them 
all together ,  weaving the service of her happy influence 
through the tissue of all their lives ,  and making it pre -  
dominate nowhere .  Lucie heard in the echoes of years none 
but friendly and soothing sounds .  Her husbands step was 



ECHOES 239 

strong and prosperous among them  ;  her fathers firm and 
equal .  Lo ,  Miss Pross ,  in harness of string ,  awakening the 
echoes ,  as an unruly charger ,  whip - corrected ,  snorting and 
pawing the earth under the plane - tree in the garden  !  

Even when there were sounds of sorrow among the rest ,  
they were not harsh nor cruel .  Even when golden hair ,  like 
her own ,  lay in a halo on a pillow round the worn face of 
a little boy ,  and he said ,  with a radiant smile ,   " Dear papa 
and mamma ,  I am very sorry to leave you both ,  and to leave 
my pretty sister  ;  but I am called ,  and I must go  !   "  those 
were not tears all of agony that wetted his young mothers 
cheek ,  as the spirit departed from her embrace that had been 
entrusted to it .  Suffer them and forbid them not .  They 
see my Fathers face .  Father ,  blessed words  !  

Thus ,  the rustling of an Angels wings got blended with 
the other echoes ,  and they were not wholly of earth ,  but had 
in them that breath of Heaven .  Sighs of the winds that 
blew over a little garden - tomb were mingled with them also ,  
and both were audible to Lucie ,  in a hushed murmur — like 
the breathing of a summer sea asleep upon a sandy shore — 
as the little Lucie ,  comically studious at the task of the 
morning ,  or dressing a doll at her mothers footstool ,  chat -  
tered in the tongues of the Two Cities that were blended in 
her life .  

The echoes rarely answered to the actual tread of Sydney 
Carton .  Some half - dozen times a year ,  at most ,  he claimed 
his privilege of coming in uninvited ,  and would sit among 
them through the evening ,  as he had once done often .  He 
never came there heated with wine .  And one other thing -  
regarding him was whispered in the echoes ,  which has been 
whispered by all true echoes for ages and ages .  

No man ever really loved a woman ,  lost her ,  and knew 
her with a blameless though an unchanged mind ,  when she 
was a wife and a mother ,  but her children had a strange 
sympathy with him — an instinctive delicacy of pity for him .  
What fine hidden sensibilities are touched in such a case ,  no 
echoes tell  ;  but it is so ,  and it was so here .  Carton was the 
first stranger to whom little Lucie held out her chubby arms ,  
and he kept his place with her as she grew .  The little boy 
had spoken of him ,  almost at the last .   "  Poor Carton  !  
Kiss him for me  !   "  

Mr .  Stryver shouldered his way through the law ,  like some 
great engine forcing itself through turbid water ,  and dragged 



240 A TALE OF TWO CITIES 

his useful friend in his wake ,  like a boat towed astern .  As 
the boat so favoured is usually in a rough plight ,  and mostly 
under water ,  so ,  Sydney had a swamped life of it .  But ,  easy 
and strong custom ,  unhappily so much easier and stronger 
in him than any stimulating sense of desert or disgrace ,  made 
it the life he was to lead  ;  and he no more thought of emerg -  
ing from his state of lions jackal ,  than any real jackal may 
be supposed to think of rising to be a lion .  Stryver was 
rich  ;  had married a florid widow with property and three 
boys ,  who had nothing particularly shining about them but 
the straight hair of their dumpling heads .  

These three young gentlemen .  Mi* .  Stryver ,  exuding 
patronage of the most offensive quality from every pore ,  had 
walked before him like three sheep to the quiet corner in 
Soho ,  and had offered as pupils to Lucies husband : deli -  
cately saying ,   "  Halloa  !  here are three lumps of bread - and -  
cheese towards your matrimonial picnic ,  Darnay  !   "  The 
polite rejection of the three lumps of bread - and - cheese had 
quite bloated Mr .  Stryver with indignation ,  which he after -  
wards turned to account in the training of the young gentle -  
men ,  by directing them to beware of the pride of Beggars ,  
like that tutor - fellow .  He was also in the habit of declaim -  
ing to Mi*s .  Stryver ,  over his full - bodied wine ,  on the arts 
Mrs .  Darnay had once put in practice to  "  catch  "  him ,  and 
on the diamond - cut - diamond arts in himself ,  madam ,  which 
had rendered him  "  not to be caught .  "  Some of his Kings 
Bench familiars ,  who were occasionally parties to the full -  
bodied wine and the lie ,  excused him for the latter by saying 
that he had told it so often ,  that he believed it himself — 
which is surely such an incorrigible aggravation of an 
originally bad offence ,  as to justify any such offenders being 
carried off to some suitably retired spot ,  and there hanged 
out of the way .  

These were among the echoes to which Lucie ,  sometimes 
pensive ,  sometimes amused and laughing ,  listened in the 
echoing corner ,  until her little daughter was six years old .  
How near to her heart the echoes of her childs tread came ,  
and those of her own dear fathers ,  always active and self -  
possessed ,  and those of her dear husbands ,  need not be told .  
Nor ,  how the lightest echo of their united home ,  directed 
by herself with such a wise and elegant thrift that it was 
more abundant than any waste ,  was music to her .  Nor .  
how there were echoes all about her ,  sweet in her ears ,  of 



COMING EVENTS CASTING THEIR SHADOWS 241 

the many times her father had told her that he found her 
more devoted to him married  ( if that could be )  than single ,  
and of the many times her husband had said to her that no 
cares and duties seemed to divide her love for him or her 
help to him ,  and asked her  " What is the magic secret ,  my 
darling ,  of your being everything to all of us ,  as if there 
were only one of us ,  yet never seeming to be hurried ,  or to 
have too much to do ?  "  

But ,  there were other echoes ,  from a distance ,  that rumbled 
menacingly in the corner all through this space of time .  
And it was now ,  about little Lucies sixth birthday ,  that they 
began to have an awful sound ,  as of a great storm in France 
with a dreadful sea rising .  

On a night in mid - July ,  one thousand seven hundred and 
eighty - nine ,  Mr .  Lorry came in late ,  from Tellsons ,  and sat 
himself down by Lucie and her husband in the dark window .  
It was a hot ,  wild night ,  and they were all three reminded of 
the old Sunday night when they had looked at the lightning 
from the same place .  

 " I began to think ,  "  said Mr .  Lorry ,  pushing his brown 
wig back ,   "  that I should have to pass the night at Tellsons .  
We have been so full of business all day ,  that we have not 
known what to do first ,  or which way to turn .  There is 
such an uneasiness in Paris ,  that we have actually a run of 
confidence upon us  !  Our customers over there ,  seem not to 
be able to confide their property to us fast enough .  There 
is positively a mania among some of them for sending it 
to England .  "  

 " That has a bad look ,  "  said Darnay .  

 " A bad look ,  you say ,  my dear Darnay? Yes ,  but we 
dont know what reason there is in it .  People are so un -  
reasonable  !  Some of us at Tellsons are getting old ,  and we 
really cant be troubled out of the ordinary course without 
due occasion .  "  

 " Still ,  "  said Darnay ,   " you know how gloomy and 
threatening the sky is .  "  

 " I know that ,  to be sure ,  "  assented Mr .  Lorry ,  trying to 
persuade himself that his sweet temper was soured ,  and that 
he grumbled ,   "  but I am determined to be peevish after my 
long days botheration .  Where is Manette ?  "  

 " Here he is ,  "  said the Doctor ,  entering the dark room at 
the moment .  

 " I am quite glad you are at home : for these hurries and 



242 A TALE OF TWO CITIES 

forebodings by which I have been surrounded all day long ,  
have made me nervous without reason .  You are not going 
out ,  I hope ?  "  

 "  No  ;  I am going to play backgammon with you ,  if you 
like ,  "  said the Doctor .  

 "  I dont think I do like ,  if I may speak my mind .  I am 
not fit to be pitted against you to - night .  Is the tea - board 
still there ,  Lucie ? I cant see .   "  

 "  Of course ,  it has been kept for you .  "  

 "  Thank ye ,  my dear .  The precious child is safe in bed ? "  

 "  And sleeping soundly .  "  

 "  Thats right  ;  all safe and well  !  I dont know why any -  
thing should be otherwise than safe and well here ,  thank 
God  ;  but I have been so put out all day ,  and I am not 
as young as I was  !  My tea ,  my dear  !  Thank ye .  Now ,  
come and take your place in the circle ,  and let us sit quiet ,  
and hear the echoes about which you have your theory .   "  

 "  Not a theory  ;  it was a fancy .  "  

 "  A fancy ,  then ,  my wise pet ,  "  said Mr .  Lorry ,  patting her 
hand .   "  They are very numerous and very loud ,  though ,  
are they not ? Only hear them  !   "  

Headlong ,  mad ,  and dangerous footsteps to force their way 
into anybodys life ,  footsteps not easily made clean again if 
once stained red ,  the footsteps raging in Saint Antoine afar 
off ,  as the little circle sat in the dark London window .  

Saint Antoine had been ,  that morning ,  a vast dusky mass 
of scarecrows heaving to and fro ,  with frequent gleams of 
light above the billowy heads ,  where steel blades and bayonets 
shone in the sun .  A tremendous roar arose from the throat 
of Saint Antoine ,  and a forest of naked arms struggled in the 
air like shrivelled branches of trees in a winter wind : all the 
fingers convulsively clutching at eveiy weapon or semblance 
of a weapon that was thrown up from the depths below ,  no 
matter how far off .  

Who gave them out ,  whence they last came ,  where they 
began ,  through what agency they crookedly quivered and 
jerked ,  scores at a time ,  over the heads of the crowd ,  like 
a kind of lightning ,  no eye in the throng could have told  ;  
but ,  muskets were being distributed — so were cartridges ,  
powder ,  and ball ,  bars of iron and wood ,  knives ,  axes ,  pikes ,  
every weapon that distracted ingenuity could discover or 
devise .  People who could lay hold of nothing else ,  set 



ATTACK ON THE BASTILLE 243 

themselves with bleeding hands to force stones and bricks 
out of their places in walls .  Every pulse and heart in Saint 
Antoine was on high - fever strain and at high - fever heat .  
Every living creature there held life as of no account ,  and 
was demented with a passionate readiness to sacrifice it .  

As a whirlpool of boiling waters has a centre point ,  so ,  all 
this raging circled round Defarges wine - shop ,  and every 
human drop in the caldron had a tendency to be sucked 
towards the vortex where Defarge himself ,  already begrimed 
with gunpowder and sweat ,  issued orders ,  issued arms ,  
thrust this man back ,  dragged this man forward ,  disarmed 
one to arm another ,  laboured and strove in the thickest of 
the uproar .  

 "  Keep near to me ,  Jacques Three ,  "  cried Defarge  ;   "  and 
do you ,  Jacques One and Two ,  separate and put yourselves 
at the head of as many of these patriots as you can .  Where 
is my wife ?  "  

 "  Eh ,  well  !  Here you see me  !   "  said madam e ,  composed 
as ever ,  but not knitting to - day .  Madames resolute right 
hand was occupied with an axe ,  in place of the usual softer 
implements ,  and in her girdle were a pistol and a cruel knife .  

 "  Where do you go ,  my wife ?  "  

 " I go ,  "  said madame ,   " with you at present .  You shall 
see me at the head of women ,  by - and - by .  "  

 "  Come ,  then  !   "  cried Defarge ,  in a resounding voice .  
 "  Patriots and friends ,  we are ready  !  The Bastille  !   "  

With a roar that sounded as if all the breath in France 
had been shaped into the detested word ,  the living sea rose ,  
wave on wave ,  depth on depth ,  and overflowed the city to 
that point .  Alarm - bells ringing ,  drums beating ,  the sea 
raging and thundering on its new beach ,  the attack begun .  

Deep ditches ,  double drawbridge ,  massive stone walls ,  
eight great towers ,  cannon ,  muskets ,  fire and smoke .  
Through the fire and through the smoke — in the fire and in 
the smoke ,  for the sea east him up against a cannon ,  and on 
the instant he became a cannonier — Defarge of the wine -  
shop worked like a manful soldier ,  Two fierce hours .  

Deep ditch ,  single drawbridge ,  massive stone walls ,  eight 
great towers ,  cannon ,  muskets ,  fire and smoke .  One draw -  
bridge down  !   "  Work ,  comrades all .  work  !  Work ,  Jacques 
One ,  Jacques Two ,  Jacques One Thousand ,  Jacques Two 
Thousand ,  Jacques Five - and - Twenty Thousand  ;  in the name 
of all the Angels or the Devils — which you prefer — work  !   "  



244 A TALE OF TWO CITIES 

Thus Defarge of the wine - shop ,  still at his gun ,  which had 
long grown hot .  

 "  To me ,  women  !   "  cried madame his wife .   "  What  !  We 
can kill as well as the men when the place is taken  !   "  And 
to her ,  with a shrill thirsty cry ,  trooping women variously 
armed ,  but all armed alike in hunger and revenge .  

Cannon ,  muskets ,  fire and smoke  ;  but ,  still the deep ditch ,  
the single drawbridge ,  the massive stone walls ,  and the eight 
great towers .  Slight displacements of the raging sea ,  made 
by the falling wounded .  Flashing weapons ,  blazing torches ,  
smoking waggon - loads of wet straw ,  haid work at neighbour -  
ing barricades in all directions ,  shrieks ,  volleys ,  execrations ,  
bravery without stint ,  boom ,  smash and rattle ,  and the furious 
sounding of the living sea  ;  but ,  still the deep ditch ,  and 
the single drawbridge ,  and the massive stone walls ,  and the 
eight great towers ,  and still Defarge of the wine - shop at his 
gun ,  grown doubly hot by the service of Four fierce hours .  

A white flag from within the fortress ,  and a parley — this 
dimly perceptible through the raging storm ,  nothing audible 
in it — suddenly the sea rose immeasurably wider and higher ,  
and swept Defarge of the wine - shop over the lowered draw -  
bridge ,  past the massive stone outer walls ,  in among the eight 
great towers surrendered  !  

So resistless was the force of the ocean bearing him on ,  
that even to draw his breath or turn his head was as 
impracticable as if he had been struggling in the surf at the 
South Sea ,  until he was landed in the outer court - yard of 
the Bastille .  There ,  against an angle of a wall ,  he made a 
struggle to look about him .  Jacques Three was nearly at his 
side  ;  Madame Defarge ,  still heading some of her women ,  was 
visible in the inner distance ,  and her knife was in her hand .  
Everywhere was tumult ,  exultation ,  deafening and maniacal 
bewilderment ,  astounding noise ,  yet furious dumb - show .  

 "  The Prisoners  !   "  

 "  The Records  !   "  

 "  The secret cells  !   "  

  The instruments of torture  !   "  

 "  The Prisoners  !   "  

Of all these cries ,  and ten thousand incoherencies ,   "  The 
Prisoners  !   "  was the cry most taken up by the sea that 
rushed in ,  as if there were an eternity of people ,  as well as 
of time and space .  When the foremost billows rolled past ,  
bearing the prison officers with them ,  and threatening them 



ONE HUNDRED AND FIVE ,  NORTH TOWER 245 

all with instant death if any secret nook remained undisclosed ,  
Defarge laid his strong hand on the hreast of one of these 
men — a man with a grey head ,  who had a lighted torch in 
his hand — separated him from the rest ,  and got him between 
himself and the wall .  

 "  Show me the North Tower  !   "  said Defarge .   "  Quick  !   "  

 "  I will faithfully ,  "  replied the man ,   "  if you will come 
with me .  But there is no one there .  "  

 "  What is the meaning of One Hundred and Five ,  North 
Tower ?  "  asked Defarge .   "  Quick  !   "  

 "  The meaning ,  monsieur ?  "  

Does it mean a captive ,  or a place of captivity? Or do 
you mean that I shall strike you dead ?  "  

 "  Kill him  !   "  croaked Jacques Three ,  who had come close 
up .  

 " Monsieur ,  it is a cell .  "  

 "  Show it me  !   "  

 " Pass this way ,  then .  "  

Jacques Three ,  with his usual craving on him ,  and evidently 
disappointed by the dialogue taking a turn that did not seem 
to promise bloodshed ,  held by Defarges arm as he held by 
the turnkeys .  Their three heads had been close together 
during this brief discourse ,  and it had been as much as they 
could do to hear one another ,  even then : so tremendous was 
the noise of the living ocean ,  in its irruption into the Fortress ,  
and its inundation of the courts and passages and staircases .  
All around outside ,  too ,  it beat the walls with a deep ,  hoarse 
roar ,  from which ,  occasionally ,  some partial shouts of tumult 
broke and leaped into the air like spray .  

Through gloomy vaults where the light of day had never 
shone ,  past hideous doors of dark dens and cages ,  down 
cavernous nights of steps ,  and again up steep rugged ascents 
of stone and brick ,  more like dry waterfalls than staircases ,  
Defarge ,  the turnkey ,  and Jacques Three ,  linked hand and 
arm ,  went with all the speed they could make .  Here and 
there ,  especially at first ,  the inundation started on them 
and swept by  ;  but when they had done descending ,  and were 
winding and climbing up a tower ,  they were alone .  Hemmed 
in here by the massive thickness of walls and arches ,  the 
storm within the fortress and without was only audible 
to them in a dull ,  subdued way ,  as if the noise out of 
which they had come had almost destroyed their sense of 
hearing .  






246 A TALE OF TWO CITIES 

The turnkey stopped at a low door ,  put a key in a clashing 
lock ,  swung the door slowly open ,  and said ,  as they all bent 
their heads and passed in : 

One hundred and five ,  North Tower  !   "  

There was a small ,  heavily - grated ,  unglazed window high 
in the wall ,  with a stone screen before it ,  so that the sky 
could be only seen by stooping low and looking up .  There 
was a small chimney ,  heavily barred across ,  a few feet within .  
There was a heap of old feathery wood - ashes on the hearth .  
There was a stool ,  and table ,  and a straw bed .  There were 
the four blackened walls ,  and a rusted iron ring in one of 
them .  

 "  Pass that torch slowly along these walls ,  that I may see 
them ,  "  said Defarge to the turnkey .  

The man obeyed ,  and Defarge followed the light closely 
with his eyes .  

 "  Stop  !  — Look here ,  Jacques  !   "  

 " A .  M .   !   "  croaked Jaccpues Three ,  as he read greedily .  

 " Alexandre Manette ,  "  said Defarge in his ear ,  following 
the letters with his swart forefinger ,  deeply engrained with 
gunpowder .   " And here he wrote  a poor physician .  And 
it was he ,  without doubt ,  who scratched a calendar on this 
stone .  What is that in your hand ? A crowbar ? Give 
it me  !   "  

He had still the linstock of his gun in his own hand .  He 
made a sudden exchange of the two instruments ,  and turning 
on the worm - eaten stool and table ,  beat them to pieces in a 
few blows .  

 "  Hold the light higher  !  * he said ,  wrathfully .  to the turn -  
key .   "  Look among those fragments with care .  Jacques .  
And see  !  Here is my knife ,  "  throwing it to him  ;   "  rip open 
that bed ,  and search the straw .  Hold the light higher ,  
you I "  

With a menacing look at the turnkey he crawled upon the 
hearth ,  and .  peering up the chimney ,  struck and prised at its 
sides with the crowbar ,  and worked at the iron grating across 
it .  In a few minutes ,  some mortar and dust came dropping 
down ,  which he averted his face to avoid : and in it ,  and in 
the old wood - ashes ,  and in a crevice in the chimney into 
which his weapon had slipped or wrought itself ,  he groped 
with a cautious touch .  

 "  Nothing in the wood ,  and nothing in the straw ,  Jacques ?  "  
Nothing .  "  



THE BASTILLE DOWN 247 

 "  Let us collect them together ,  in the middle of the cell .  
So  !  Light them ,  you  !   "  

The turnkey fired the little pile ,  which blazed high and 
hot .  Stooping again to come out at the low - arched door ,  
they left it burning ,  and retraced their way to the court - yard  ;  
seeming to recover their sense of hearing as they came down ,  
until they were in the raging flood once more .  

They found it surging and tossing ,  in quest of Defarge 
himself .  Saint Antoine was clamorous to have its wine - shop 
keeper foremost in the guard upon the governor who had 
defended the Bastille and shot the people .  Otherwise ,  the 
governor would not be marched to the Hotel de Ville for 
judgment .  Otherwise ,  the governor would escape ,  and the 
peoples blood  ( suddenly of some value ,  after many years of 
worthlessness )  be unavenged .  

In the howling universe of passion and contention that 
seemed to encompass this grim old officer conspicuous in his 
grey coat and red decoration ,  there was but one quite steady 
figure ,  and that was a womans .   "  See ,  there is my husband  !   "  
she cried ,  pointing him out .   "  See Defarge  !   "  She stood 
immovable close to the grim old officer ,  and remained im -  
movable close to him  ;  remained immovable close to him 
through the streets ,  as Defarge and the rest bore him along  ;  
remained immovable close to him when he was got near his 
destination ,  and began to be struck at from behind  ;  remained 
immovable close to him when the long - gathering rain of stabs 
and blows fell heavy  ;  was so close to him when he dropped 
dead under it ,  that ,  suddenly animated ,  she put her foot upon 
his neck ,  and with her cruel knife — long ready — hewed off 
his head .  

The hour was come ,  when Saint Antoine was to execute 
his horrible idea of hoisting up men for lamps to show what 
he could be and do .  Saint Antoines blood was up ,  and the 
blood of tyranny and domination by the iron hand was down 
— down on the steps of the Hotel de Ville where the 
governors body lay — down on the sole of the shoe of Madame 
Defarge where she had trodden on the body to steady it for 
mutilation .   "  Lower the lamp yonder  !   "  cried Saint Antoine ,  
after glaring round for a new means of death  ;   "  here is one 
of his soldiers to be left on guard  !   "  The swinging sentinel 
was posted ,  and the sea rushed on .  

The sea of black and threatening waters ,  and of destructive 
upheaving of wave against wave ,  whose depths were yet un -  



248 A TALE OF TWO CITIES 

fathomed and whose forces were yet unknown .  The remorse -  
less sea of turbulently swaying shapes ,  voices of vengeance ,  
and faces hardened in the furnaces of suffering until the touch 
of pity could make no mark on them .  

But ,  in the ocean of faces where every fierce and furious 
expression was in vivid life ,  there were two groups of faces — 
each seven in number — so fixedly contrasting with the rest ,  
that never did sea roll which bore more memorable wrecks 
with it .  Seven faces of prisoners ,  suddenly released by the 
storm that had burst their tomb ,  were carried high overhead : 
all scared ,  all lost ,  all wondering and amazed ,  as if the Last 
Day were come ,  and those who rejoiced around them were 
lost spirits .  Other seven faces there were ,  carried higher ,  
seven dead faces ,  whose drooping eyelids and half - seen eyes 
awaited the Last Day .  Impassive faces ,  yet with a suspended 
— not an abolished — expression on them  ;  faces ,  rather ,  in 
a fearful pause ,  as having yet to raise the dropped lids of 
the eyes ,  and bear witness with the bloodless lips ,   "  Thou 
didst it  !   "  

Seven prisoners released ,  seven gory heads on pikes ,  the 
keys of the accursed fortress of the eight strong towers ,  some 
discovered letters and other memorials of prisoners of old 
time ,  long dead of broken hearts ,  — such ,  and such - like ,  the 
loudly echoing footsteps of Saint Antoine escort through the 
Paris streets in mid - July ,  one thousand seven hundred and 
eighty - nine .  Now ,  Heaven defeat the fancy of Lucie Darnay ,  
and keep these feet far out of her life  !  For ,  they are head -  
long ,  mad ,  and dangerous  ;  and in the years so long after the 
breaking of the cask at Defarges wine - shop door ,  they are 
not easily purified when once stained red .  



CHAPTER XXII 

THE SEA STILL RISES 

Haggard Saint Antoine had had only one exultant week ,  
in which to soften his modicum of hard and bitter bread to 
such extent as he could ,  with the relish of fraternal em -  
braces and congratulations ,  when Madame Defarge sat at 
her counter ,  as usual ,  presiding over the customers .  Madame 
Defarge wore no rose in her head ,  for the great brotherhood 
of Spies had become ,  even in one short week ,  extremely 
chary of trusting themselves to the saints mercies .  The 
lamps across his streets had a portentously elastic swing 
with them .  

Madame Defarge ,  with her arms folded ,  sat in the morning 
light and heat ,  contemplating the wine - shop and the street .  
In both ,  there were several knots of loungers ,  squalid and 
miserable ,  but now with a manifest sense of power enthroned 
on their distress .  The raggedest nightcap ,  awry on the 
wretchedest head ,  had this crooked significance in it:  " I 
know how hard it has grown for me ,  the wearer of this ,  to 
support life in myself  ;  but do you know how easy it has 
grown for me ,  the wearer of this ,  to destroy life in you ?  "  
Every lean bare arm ,  that had been without work before ,  
had this work always ready for it now ,  that it could strike .  
The fingers of the knitting women were vicious ,  with the 
experience that they could tear .  There was a change in the 
appearance of Saint Antoine  ;  the image had been hammering 
into this for hundreds of yeais ,  and the last finishing blows 
had told mightily on the expression .  

Madame Defarge sat observing it ,  with such suppressed 
approval as was to be desired in the leader of the Saint 
Antoine women .  One of her sisterhood knitted beside her .  
The short ,  rather plump wife of a starved grocer ,  and the 
mother of two children withal ,  this lieutenant had already 
earned the complimentary name of The Vengeance .  



250 A TALE OF TWO CITIES 

 "  Hark  !   "  said The Vengeance .   " Listen ,  then !  Who 
conies ?  "  

As if a train of powder laid from the outermost bound of 
the Saint Antoine Quarter to the wine - shop door ,  had 
been suddenly fired ,  a fast - spreading murmur came rushing 
along .  

 "  It is Defarge ,  "  said madame .   "  Silence ,  patriots  !   "  

Defarge came in breathless ,  pulled off a red cap he wore ,  
and looked around him !   "  Listen ,  everywhere  !  "  said madame 
again .   "  Listen to him  !   "  Defarge stood ,  panting ,  against 
a background of eager eyes and open mouths ,  formed outside 
the door  ;  all those within the wine - shop had sprung to their 
feet .  

 "  Say then ,  my husband .  What is it ?  "  

 "  News from the other world  !   "  

 " How ,  then? "  cried madame ,  contemptuously .   " The 
other world? "  

 "  Does everybody here recall old Foulon ,  who told the 
famished people that they might eat grass ,  and who died ,  
and went to Hell ?  "  

 "  Everybody  !   "  from all throats .  

 "  The news is of him .  He is among us  !   "  

 " Among us !  "  from the universal throat again .   " And 
dead ?  "  

 " Not dead !  He feared us so much — and with reason — 
that he caused himself to be represented as dead ,  and had a 
grand mock - funeral .  But they have found him alive ,  biding 
in the country ,  and have brought him in .  I have seen him 
but now ,  on his way to the Hotel de Ville ,  a prisoner .  I 
have said that he had reason to fear us .  Say all  !  Had 
he reason ?  "  

Wretched old sinner of more than threescore years and ten ,  
if he had never known it yet ,  he would have known it in his 
heart of hearts if he could have heard the answering ciy .  

A moment of profound silence followed .  Defarge and his 
wife looked steadfastly at one another .  The Vengeance 
stooped ,  and the jar of a drum was heard as she moved it at 
her feet behind the counter .  

 " Patriots  !   "  said Defarge ,  in a determined voice ,   " are we 
ready ?  "  

Instantly Madame Defarges knife was in her girdle  ;  the 
drum was beating in the streets ,  as if it and a drummer had 
fiown together by magic  ;  and The Vengeance ,  uttering 



OLD FOULON 25 1 

terrific shrieks ,  and flinging her arms about her head like all 
the forty Furies at once ,  was tearing from house to house ,  
rousing the women .  

The men were terrible ,  in the bloody - minded anger with 
which they looked from windows ,  caught up what arms they 
had ,  and came pouring down into the streets  ;  but ,  the 
women were a sight to chill the boldest .  From such house -  
hold occupations as their bare poverty yielded ,  from their 
children ,  from their aged and their sick crouching on the 
bare ground famished and naked ,  they ran out with stream -  
ing hair ,  urging one another ,  and themselves ,  to madness 
with the wildest cries and actions .  Villain Foulon taken ,  my 
sister  !  Old Foulon taken ,  my mother  !  Miscreant Foulon 
taken ,  my daughter  !  Then ,  a score of others ran into the 
midst of these ,  beating their breasts ,  tearing their hair ,  and 
screaming ,  Foulon alive  !  Foulon who told the starving 
people they might eat grass  !  Foulon who told my old father 
that he might eat grass ,  when I had no bread to give him  !  
Foulon who told my baby it might suck grass ,  when these 
breasts were dry with want  !  mother of God ,  this Foulon  !  
O Heaven ,  our suffering  !  Hear me ,  my dead baby and my 
withered father : I swear on my knees ,  on these stones ,  to 
avenge you on Foulon  !  Husbands ,  and brothers ,  and young 
men ,  Give us the blood of Foulon ,  Give us the head of Foulon ,  
Give us the heart of Foulon ,  Give us the body and soul of 
Foulon ,  Kend Foulon to pieces ,  and dig him into the ground ,  
that grass may grow from him  !  With these cries ,  numbers 
of the women ,  lashed into blind frenzy ,  whirled about ,  
striking and tearing at their own friends until they dropped 
into a passionate swoon ,  and were only saved by the men 
belonging to them from being trampled under foot .  

Nevertheless ,  not a moment was lost  ;  not a moment  !  
This Foulon was at the Hotel de Ville ,  and might be loosed .  
Never ,  if Saint Antoine knew his own sufferings ,  insults ,  and 
wrongs  !  Armed men and women flocked out of the Quarter 
so fast ,  and drew even these last dregs after them with such 
a force of suction ,  that within a quarter of an hour there 
was not a human creature in Saint Antoines bosom but a 
few old crones and the wailing children .  

No .  They were all by that time choking the Hall of 
Examination where this old man ,  ugly and wicked ,  was .  and 
overflowing into the adjacent open space and streets .  The 
Defaiges ,  husband and wife ,  The Vengeance ,  and Jacques 



252 A TALE OF TWO CITIES 

Three ,  were in the first press ,  and at no great distance from 
him in the Hall .  

 "  See  !   "  cried madame ,  pointing with her knife .   "  See the 
old villain bound with ropes .  That was well done to tie a 
bunch of grass upon his back .  Ha ,  ha  !  That was well 
done .  Let him eat it now  !   "  Madame put her knife under 
her arm ,  and clapped her hands as at a play .  

The people immediately behind Madame Defarge ,  explain -  
ing the cause of her satisfaction to those behind them ,  and 
those again explaining to others ,  and those to others ,  the 
neighbouring streets resounded with the clapping of hands .  
Similarly ,  during two or three hours of drawl ,  and the 
winnowing of many bushels of words ,  Madame Defarges 
frequent expressions of impatience were taken up ,  with 
marvellous quickness ,  at a distance : the more readily ,  because 
certain men who had by some wonderful exercise of agility 
climbed up the external architecture to look in from the 
windows ,  knew Madame Defarge well ,  and acted as a 
telegraph between her and the crowd outside the building .  

At length the sun rose so high that it struck a kindly ray 
as of hope or protection ,  directly down upon the old prisoners 
head .  The favour was too much to bear  ;  in an instant the 
barrier of dust and chaff that had stood surprisingly long ,  
went to the winds ,  and Saint Antoine had got him  !  

It was known directly ,  to the furthest confines of the 
crowd .  Defarge had but sprung over a railing and a table ,  
and folded the miserable wretch in a deadly embrace — 
Madame Defarge had but followed and turned her hand in 
one of the ropes with which he was tied — The Vengeance and 
Jacques Three were not yet up with them ,  and the men at 
the windows had not yet swooped into the Hall ,  like birds 
of prey from their high perches — when the cry seemed to go 
up ,  all over the city ,   "  Bring him out  !  Bring him to the 
lamp  !   "  

Down ,  and up ,  and head foremost on the steps of the 
building  ;  now ,  on his knees  ;  now ,  on his feet  ;  now ,  on his 
back  ;  dragged ,  and struck at ,  and stifled by the bunches of 
grass and straw that were thrust into his face by hundreds 
of hands  ;  torn ,  bruised ,  panting ,  bleeding ,  yet always 
entreating and beseeching for mercy  ;  now full of vehement 
agony of action ,  with a small clear space about him as the 
people drew one another back that they might see  ;  now ,  a 
log of dead wood drawn through a forest of legs  ;  he was 



T .  ; iiiim i ^^ - #6 




*?W 



KILLED WITH GRASS IN HIS MOUTH 255 

hauled to the nearest street corner where one of the fatal 
lamps swung ,  and there Madame Defarge let him go — as a 
cat might have done to a mouse — and silently and composedly 
looked at him while they made ready ,  and while he besought 
her : the women passionately screeching at him all the time ,  
and the men sternly calling out to have him killed with grass 
in his mouth .  Once ,  he went aloft ,  and the rope broke ,  and 
they caught him shrieking  ;  twice ,  he went aloft ,  and the 
rope broke ,  and they caught him shrieking  ;  then ,  the rope 
was merciful ,  and held him ,  and his head was soon upon a 
pike ,  with grass enough in the mouth for all Saint Antoine 
to dance at the sight of .  

Nor was this the end of the days bad work ,  for Saint 
Antoine so shouted and danced his angry blood up ,  that it 
boiled again ,  on hearing when the day closed in that the 
son - in - law of the despatched ,  another of the peoples enemies 
and insulters ,  was coming into Paris under a guard five 
hundred strong ,  in cavalry alone .  Saint Antoine wrote his 
crimes on flaring sheets of paper ,  seized him — would have 
torn him out of the breast of an army to bear Foulon 
company — set his head and heart on pikes ,  and carried the 
three spoils of the day ,  in Wolf - procession ,  through the 
streets .  

Not before dark night did the men and women come back 
to the children ,  wailing and breadless .  Then ,  the miserable 
bakers shops were beset by long files of them ,  patiently 
waiting to buy bad bread  ;  and while they waited with 
stomachs faint and empty ,  they beguiled the time by 
embracing one another on the triumphs of the day ,  and 
achieving them again in gossip .  Gradually ,  these strings of 
ragged people shortened and frayed away  ;  and then poor 
lights began to shine in high windows ,  and slender fires were 
made in the streets ,  at which neighbours cooked in common ,  
afterwards supping at their doors .  

Scanty and insufficient suppers those ,  and innocent of meat ,  
as of most other sauce to wretched bread .  Yet ,  human 
fellowship infused some nourishment into the flinty viands ,  
and struck some sparks of cheerfulness out of them .  Fathers 
and mothers who had had their full share in the worst of 
the day ,  played gently with their meagre children  ;  and 
lovers ,  with such a world around them and before them ,  
loved and hoped .  

It was almost morning ,  when Defarges wine - shop parted 



256 A TALE OF TWO CITIES 

with its last knot of customers ,  and Monsieur Defarge said 
to madame his wife ,  in husky tones ,  while fastening the door : 
 "  At last it is come ,  my dear  !   "  
 " Eh well  !   "  returned madame .   "  Almost .  "  
Saint Antoine slept ,  the Defarges slept : even The Ven -  
geance slept with her starved grocer ,  and the drum was at 
rest .  The drums was the only voice in Saint Antoine that 
blood and hurry had not changed .  The Vengeance ,  as 
custodian of the drum ,  could have wakened him up and 
had the same speech out of him as before the Bastille fell ,  
or old Foulon was seized  ;  not so with the hoarse tones of 
the men and women in Saint Antoine s bosom .  



CHAPTER XXIII 

FIRE RISES 

There was a change on the village where the fountain fell ,  
and where the mender of roads went forth daily to hammer 
out of the stones on the highway such morsels of bread as 
might serve for patches to hold his poor ignorant soul and 
his poor reduced body together .  The prison on the crag 
was not so dominant as of yore  ;  there were soldiers to 
guard it ,  but not many  ;  there were officers to guard the 
soldiers ,  but not one of them knew what his men would 
do — beyond this : that it would probably not be what he 
was ordered .  

Far and wide lay a ruined country ,  yielding nothing but 
desolation .  Every green leaf ,  every blade of grass and blade 
of grain ,  was as shrivelled and poor as the miserable people .  
Everything was bowed down ,  dejected ,  oppressed ,  and broken .  
Habitations ,  fences ,  domesticated animals ,  men ,  women ,  
children ,  and the soil that bore them — all worn out .  

Monseigneur  ( often a most worthy individual gentleman )  
was a national blessing ,  gave a chivalrous tone to things ,  
was a polite example of luxurious and shining life ,  and 
a great deal more to equal purpose  ;  nevertheless ,  Mon -  
seigneur as a class had ,  somehow or other ,  brought things 
to this .  Strange that Creation ,  designed expressly for 
Monseigneur ,  should be so soon wrung dry and squeezed 
out  !  There must be something short - sighted in the eternal 
arrangements ,  surely  !  Thus it was ,  however  ;  and the last 
drop of blood having been extracted from the flints ,  and 
the last screw of the rack having been turned so often that 
its purchase crumbled ,  and it now turned and turned with 
nothing to bite .  Monseigneur began to run away from a 
phenomenon so low and unaccountable .  

But ,  this was not the change on the village ,  and on many 
a village like it .  For scores of years gone by ,  Monseigneur 
bad squeezed it and wrung it .  and had seldom graced it with 



258 A TALE OF TWO CITIES 

his presence except for the pleasures of the chase — now ,  
found in hunting the people  ;  now ,  found in hunting the 
beasts ,  for whose preservation Monseigneur made edifying 
spaces of barbarous and barren wilderness .  No .  The change 
consisted in the appearance of strange faces of low caste ,  
rather than in the disappearance of the high - caste ,  chiseled ,  
and otherwise beatified and beatifying features of Mon -  
seigneur .  

For ,  in these times ,  as the mender of roads worked ,  solitary ,  
in the dust ,  not often troubling himself to reflect that dust 
he was and to dust he must return ,  being for the most 
part too much occupied in thinking how little he had for 
supper and how much more he would eat if he had it — in 
these times ,  as he raised his eyes from his lonely labour ,  
and viewed the prospect ,  he would see some rough figure 
approaching on foot ,  the like of which was once a rarity in 
those parts ,  but was now a frequent presence .  As it 
advanced ,  the mender of roads would discern without sur -  
prise ,  that it was a shaggy - haired man .  of almost barbarian 
aspect ,  tall ,  in wooden shoes that were clumsy even to the 
eyes of a mender of roads ,  grim ,  rough ,  swart ,  steeped in 
the mud and dust of many highways ,  dank with the marshy 
moisture of many low grounds ,  sprinkled with the thorns 
and leaves and moss of many byways through woods .  

Such a man came upon him ,  like a ghost ,  at noon in the 
July weather ,  as he sat on his heap of stones under a bank ,  
taking such shelter as he could get from a shower of hail .  

The man looked at him .  looked at the village in the hollow ,   .  
at the mill ,  and at the prison on the crag .  When he had 
identified these objects in what benighted mind he had ,  he 
said ,  in a dialect that was just intelligible : 

 "  How goes it ,  Jacques ?  "  

 " All well ,  Jacques /  

 "  Touch then  !   "  

They joined hands ,  and the man sat down on the heap of 
stones .  

 " No dinner? "  

 " Nothing but supper now ,  "  said the mender of roads ,  
with a hungry face .  

 "  It is the fashion ,  "  growled the man .   "  I meet no dinner 
anywhere .  "  

He took out a blacken? d pipe ,  filled it ,  lighted it with 
flint and steel ,  pulled at it until it was in a bright glow: 



A FOOTSORE TRAVELLER 259 

then ,  suddenly held it from him and dropped something 
into it from between his finger and thumb ,  that blazed and 
went out in a puff of smoke .  

 "  Touch then .  "  It was the turn of the mender of roads 
to say it this time ,  after observing these operations .  They 
again joined hands .  

 "  To - night ?  "  said the mender of roads .  

 "  To - night ,  "  said the man ,  putting the pipe in his mouth .  

 " Where? "  

 " Here .  "  

He and the mender of roads sat on the heap of stones 
looking silently at one another ,  with the hail driving in 
between them like a pigmy charge of bayonets ,  until the 
sky began to clear over the village .  

 "  Show me  !   "  said the traveller then ,  moving to the brow 
of the hill .  

 "  See  !   "  returned the mender of roads ,  with extended 
finger .   "  You go down here ,  and straight through the 
street ,  and past the fountain  "  

 " To the Devil with all that !  "  interrupted the other ,  
rolling his eye over the landscape .   " 7 go through no 
streets and past no fountains .  Well ?  "  

 " Well !  About two leagues beyond the summit of that 
hill above the village .  "  

 "  Good .  When do you cease to work ?  "  

 " At sunset .  "  

 " Will you wake me ,  before departing? I have walked 
two nights without resting .  Let me finish my pipe ,  and 
I shall sleep like a child .  Will you wake me ?  "  

 " Surely .  "  

The wayfarer smoked his pipe out ,  put it in his breast ,  
slipped off his great wooden shoes ,  and lay down on his 
back on the heap of stones .  He was fast asleep directly .  

As the road - mender plied his dusty labour ,  and the hail -  
clouds ,  rolling away ,  revealed bright bars and streaks of sky 
which were responded to by silver gleams upon the land -  
scape ,  the little man  ( who wore a red cap now .  in place of 
his blue one )  seemed fascinated by the figure on the heap 
of stones .  His eyes were so often turned towards it ,  that 
he used his tools mechanically ,  and .  one would have said ,  to 
very poor account .  The bronze face ,  the shaggy black hair 
and beard ,  the coarse woollen red cap .  the rough medley 
dress of home - spun stuff and hairy skins of beasts ,  the 



260 A TALE OF TWO CITIES 

powerful frame attenuated by spare living ,  and the sullen 
and desperate compression of the lips in sleep ,  inspired the 
mender of roads with awe .  The traveller had travelled far ,  
and his feet were footsore ,  and his ankles chafed and bleeding  ;  
his great shoes ,  stuffed with leaves and grass ,  had been 
heavy to drag over the many long leagues ,  and his clothes 
were chafed into holes ,  as he himself was into sores .  
Stooping down beside him ,  the road - mender tried to get 
a peep at secret weapons in his breast or where not  ;  but .  
in vain ,  for he slept with his arms crossed upon him .  and 
set as resolutely as his lips .  Fortified towns with their 
stockades ,  guard - houses ,  gates ,  trenches ,  and drawbridges ,  
seemed to the mender of roads ,  to be so much air as against 
this figure .  And when he lifted his eyes from it to the 
horizon and looked around ,  he saw in his small fancy 
similar figures ,  stopped by no obstacle ,  tending to centres 
all over France .  

The man slept on ,  indifferent to showers of hail and 
intervals of brightness ,  to sunshine on his face and shadow ,  
to the pattering lumps of dull ice on his body and the 
diamonds into which the sun changed them ,  until the sun 
was low in the west ,  and the sky was glowing .  Then ,  
the mender of roads having got Ins tools together and all 
things ready to go down into the village ,  roused him .  

 "  Good  !   "  said the sleeper ,  rising on his elbow .   "  Two 
leagues beyond the summit of the hill ?  "  

 " About .  "  

 "  About .  Good  !   "  

The mender of roads went home ,  with the dust going on 
before him according to the set of the wind ,  and was soon 
at the fountain ,  squeezing himself in among the lean kine 
brought there to drink ,  and appearing even to whisper to 
them in his whispering to all the village .  When the village 
had taken its poor supper ,  it did not creep to bed .  as it 
usually did ,  but came out of doors again ,  and remained 
there .  A curious contagion of whispering was upon it ,  and 
also ,  when it gathered together at the fountain in the dark ,  
another curious contagion of looking expectantly at the sky 
in one direction only .  Monsieur Gabelle ,  chief functionary 
of the place ,  became uneasy  ;  went out on his house - top 
alone ,  and looked in that direction too  ;  glanced down from 
behind his chimneys at the darkening faces by the fountain 
below ,  and sent word to the sacristan who kept the keys 



THE CHATEAU ON FIRE 26l 

of the church ,  that there might he need to ring the tocsin 
by - and - by .  

The night deepened .  The trees environing the old chateau ,  
keeping its solitary state apart ,  moved in a rising wind ,  as 
though they threatened the pile of building massive and 
dark in the gloom .  Up the two terrace flights of steps 
the rain ran wildly ,  and beat at the great door ,  like a swift 
messenger rousing those within  ;  uneasy rushes of wind 
went through the hall ,  among the old spears and knives ,  
and passed lamenting up the stairs ,  and shook the curtains 
of the bed where the last Marquis had slept .  East ,  West ,  
North ,  and South ,  through the woods ,  four heavy - treading ,  
unkempt figures crushed the high grass and cracked the 
branches ,  striding on cautiously to come together in the 
court - yard .  Four lights broke out there ,  and moved away 
in different directions ,  and all was black again .  

But ,  not for long .  Presently ,  the chateau began to make 
itself strangely visible by some light of its own ,  as though 
it were growing luminous .  Then ,  a flickering streak 
played behind the architecture of the front ,  picking out 
transparent places ,  and showing where balustrades ,  arches ,  
and windows were .  Then it soared higher ,  and grew 
broader and brighter .  Soon ,  from a score of the great 
windows ,  flames burst forth ,  and the stone faces awakened ,  
stared out of fire .  

A faint murmur arose about the house from the few people 
who were left there ,  and there was a saddling of a horse 
and riding away .  There was spurring and splashing through 
the darkness ,  and bridle was drawn in the space by the 
village fountain ,  and the horse in a foam stood at Monsieur 
Gabelles door .   "  Help ,  Gabelle  !  Help ,  every one  !   "  The 
tocsin rang impatiently ,  but other help  ( if that were any )  
there was none .  The mender of roads ,  and two hundred 
and fifty particular friends ,  stood with folded arms at the 
fountain ,  looking at the pillar of fire in the sky .   "  It must 
be forty feet high ,  "  said they ,  grimly  ;  and never moved .  

The rider from the chateau ,  and the horse in a foam ,  
clattered away through the village ,  and galloped up the stony 
steep ,  to the prison on the crag .  At the gate ,  a group of 
officers were looking at the fire  ;  removed from them ,  a group 
of soldiers .   "  Help ,  gentlemen - officers  !  The chateau is on 
fire  ;  valuable objects may be saved from the flames by timely 
aid  !  Help ,  help  !   "  The officers looked towards the soldiers 



262 A TALE OF TWO CITIES 

who looked at the fire  ;  gave no orders  ;  and answered ,  with 
shrugs and biting of lips ,   "  It must burn .  "  

As the rider rattled down the hill again and through the 
street ,  the village was illuminating .  The mender of roads ,  
and the two hundred and fifty particular friends ,  inspired as 
one man and woman by the idea of lighting up .  had darted 
into their houses ,  and were putting candles in every dull 
little pane of glass .  The general scarcity of everything ,  
occasioned candles to be borrowed in a rather peremptory 
manner of Monsieur Gabelle  ;  and in a moment of reluctance 
and hesitation on that functionarys part ,  the mender of 
roads ,  once so submissive to authority ,  had remarked that 
carriages were good to make bonfires with ,  and that post -  
horses would roast .  

The chateau was left to itself to flame and burn .  In the 
roaring and raging of the conflagration ,  a red - hot wind ,  
driving straight from the infernal regions ,  seemed to be 
blowing the edifice away .  With the rising and falling of 
the blaze ,  the stone faces showed as if they were in torment .  
When great masses of stone and timber fell ,  the face with 
the two dints in the nose became obscured : anon struggled 
out of the smoke again ,  as if it were the face of the cruel 
Marquis ,  burning at the stake and contending with the fire .  

The chateau burned  ;  the nearest trees ,  laid hold of by the 
fire ,  scorched and shrivelled  ;  trees at a distance ,  fired by the 
four fierce figures ,  begirt the blazing edifice with a new forest 
of smoke .  Molten lead and iron boiled in the marble basin 
of the fountain  ;  the water ran dry  ;  the extinguisher tops 
of the towers vanished like ice before the heat ,  and trickled 
down into four rugged wells of flame .  Great rents and splits 
branched out in the solid walls ,  like crystallisation  ;  stupefied 
birds wheeled about and dropped into the furnace  ;  four fierce 
figures trudged away ,  East ,  West ,  North ,  and South ,  along 
the night - enshrouded roads ,  guided by the beacon they had 
lighted ,  towards their next destination .  The illuminated 
village had seized hold of the tocsin ,  and ,  abolishing the 
lawful ringer ,  rang for joy .  

Not only that  ;  but the village ,  light - headed with famine ,  
fire ,  and bell - ringing ,  and bethinking itself that Monsieur 
Gabelle had to do with the collection of rent and taxes — 
though it was but a small instalment of taxes ,  and no rent 
at all ,  that Gabelle had got in those latter days — became 
impatient for an interview with him .  and ,  surrounding his 



MONSIEUR GABELLE ON HIS HOUSE - TOP 263 

house ,  summoned him to come forth for personal conference .  
Whereupon ,  Monsieur Gabelle did heavily bar his door ,  and 
retire to hold counsel with himself .  The result of that 
conference was ,  that Gabelle again withdrew himself to his 
house - top behind his stack of chimneys  ;  this time resolved ,  
if his door was broken in  ( he was a small Southern man of 
retaliative temperament )  ,  to pitch himself head foremost 
over the parapet ,  and crush a man or two below .  

Probably ,  Monsieur Gabelle passed a long night up there ,  
with the distant chateau for fire and candle ,  and the beating 
at his door ,  combined with the joy - ringing ,  for music  ;  not 
to mention his having an ill - omened lamp slung across the 
road before his posting - house gate ,  which the village showed 
a lively inclination to displace in his favour .  A trying 
suspense ,  to be passing a whole summer night on the brink 
of the black ocean ,  ready to take that plunge into it upon 
which Monsieur Gabelle had resolved  !  But ,  the friendly 
dawn appearing at last ,  and the rush -  candles of the village 
guttering out ,  the people happily dispersed ,  and Monsieur 
Gabelle came down bringing his life with him for that while .  

Within a hundred miles ,  and in the light of other fires ,  
there were other functionaries less fortunate ,  that night and 
other nights ,  whom the rising sun found hanging across 
once - peaceful streets ,  where they had been born and bred  ;  
also ,  there were other villagers and townspeople less fortunate 
than the mender of roads and his fellows ,  upon whom the 
functionaries and soldiery turned with success ,  and whom 
they strung up in their turn .  But ,  the fierce figures were 
steadily wending East ,  West ,  North ,  and South ,  be that as 
it would  ;  and whosoever hung ,  fire burned .  The altitude 
of the gallows that would turn to water and quench it ,  no 
functionary ,  by any stretch of mathematics ,  was able to 
calculate successfully .  



CHAPTER XXIV 

DRAWN TO THE LOADSTONE ROCK 

In such risings of fire and risings of sea — the firm earth 
shaken by the rushes of an angry ocean which had now no 
ebb ,  but was always on the flow ,  higher and higher ,  to the 
terror and wonder of the beholders on the shore — three years 
of tempest were consumed .  Three more birthdays of little 
Lucie had been woven by the golden thread into the peaceful 
tissue of the life of her home .  

Many a night and many a day had its inmates listened 
to the echoes in the corner ,  with hearts that failed them 
when they heard the thronging feet .  For ,  the footsteps had 
become to their minds as the footsteps of a people ,  tumul -  
tuous under a red flag and with their country declared in 
danger ,  changed into wild beasts ,  by terrible enchantment 
long persisted in .  

Monseigneur ,  as a class ,  had dissociated himself from the 
phenomenon of his not being appreciated : of his being so 
little wanted in France ,  as to incur considerable danger of 
receiving his dismissal from it ,  and this life together .  Like 
the fabled rustic who raised the Devil with infinite pains ,  
and was so terrified at the sight of him that he could ask 
the Enemy no question ,  but immediately fled  ;  so ,  Mon -  
seigneur ,  after boldly reading the Lords Prayer backwards 
for a great number of years ,  and performing many other 
potent spells for compelling the Evil One ,  no sooner beheld 
him in his terrors than he took to his noble heels .  

The shining Bulls Eye of the Court was gone ,  or it would 
have been the mark for a hurricane of national bullets .  It 
had never been a good eye to see with — had long had the 
mote in it of Lucifers pride ,  Sardanapaluss luxury ,  and 
a moles blindness — but it had dropped out and was gone .  
The Court ,  from that exclusive inner circle to its outermost 
rotten ring of intrigue ,  corruption ,  and dissimulation ,  was 
all gone together .  Royalty was gone  ;  had been besieged 



A CENTRE OF FRENCH INTELLIGENCE 265 

in its Palace and suspended , * when the last tidings came 
over .  

The August of the year one thousand seven hundred and 
ninety - two was come ,  and Monseigneur was by this time 
scattered far and wide .  

As was natural ,  the head - quarters and great gathering -  
place of Monseigneur ,  in London ,  was Tellsons Bank .  
Spirits are supposed to haunt the places where their bodies 
most resorted ,  and Monseigneur without a guinea haunted 
the spot where his guineas used to be .  Moreover ,  it was 
the spot to which such French intelligence as was most to 
be relied upon ,  came quickest .  Again : Tellsons was a 
munificent house ,  and extended great liberality to old 
customers who had fallen from their high estate .  Again : 
those nobles who had seen the coming storm in time ,  and 
anticipating plunder or confiscation ,  had made provident 
remittances to Tellsons ,  were always to be heard of there 
by their needy brethren .  To which it must be added that 
every new - comer from France reported himself and his tidings 
at Tellsons ,  almost as a matter of course .  For such variety 
of reasons ,  Tellsons was at that time ,  as to French intelli -  
gence ,  a kind of High Exchange  ;  and this was so well 
known to the public ,  and the inquiries made there were in 
consequence so numerous ,  that Tellsons sometimes wrote 
the latest news out in a line or so and posted it in the Bank 
windows ,  for all who ran through Temple Bar to read .  

On a steaming ,  misty afternoon ,  Mr .  Lorry sat at his desk ,  
and Charles Darnay stood leaning on it ,  talking with him 
in a low voice .  The penitential den once set apart for 
interviews with the House ,  was now the news - Exchange ,  
and was filled to overflowing .  It was within half an hour 
or so of the time of closing .  

 "  But ,  although you are the youngest man that ever lived ,  "  
said Charles Darnay ,  rather hesitating ,   "  I must still suggest 
to you  "  

 "  I understand .  That I am too old ?  "  said Mr .  Lorry .  

 "  Unsettled weather ,  a long journey ,  uncertain means of 
travelling ,  a disorganised countiy ,  a city that may not be 
even safe for you .  "  

 " My dear Charles ,  "  said Mr .  Lorry ,  with cheerful con -  
fidence ,   "  you touch some of the reasons for my going : not 
for my staying away .  It is safe enough for me  ;  nobody 
will care to interfere with an old fellow of hard upon four -  

L r 3 



266 A TALE OF TWO CITIES 

score when there are so many people there much better 
worth interfering with .  As to its being a disorganised city ,  
if it were not a disorganised city there would be no occasion 
to send somebody from our House here to our House there ,  
who knows the city and the business ,  of old ,  and is in 
Tellsons confidence .  As to the uncertain travelling ,  the 
long journey ,  and the winter weather ,  if I were not prepared 
to submit myself to a few inconveniences for the sake of 
Tellsons ,  after all these years ,  who ought to be ?  "  

• I wish I were going myself ,  "  said Charles Darnay ,  some -  
what restlessly ,  and like one thinking aloud .  

 "  Indeed  !  You are a pretty fellow to object and advise  !  < 
exclaimed Mr .  Lorry .   " You wish you were going yourself? 
And you a Frenchman born ? You are a wise counsellor .  "  

 "  My dear Mr .  Loriy ,  it is because I am a Frenchman 
born ,  that the thought  ( which I did not mean to utter here ,  
however )  has passed through my mind often .  One cannot 
help thinking ,  having had some sympathy for the miserable 
people ,  and having abandoned something to them ,  "  he spoke 
here in his former thoughtful manner ,   "  that one might be 
listened to ,  and might have the power to persuade to some 
restraint .  Only last night ,  after you had left us ,  when I was 
talking to Lucie  "  

 " When you were talking to Lucie ,  "  Mr .  Lorry repeated .  
 "  Yes .  I wonder you are not ashamed to mention the name 
of Lucie  !  Wishing you were going to France at this time 
of day  !   "  

 " However ,  I am not going ,  "  said Charles Darnay ,  with a 
smile .   " It is more to the purpose that you say you are .  "  

 "  And I am ,  in plain reality .  The truth is ,  my dear 
Charles ,  "  Mr .  Lorry glanced at the distant House ,  and 
lowered his voice ,   " you can have no conception of tho 
difficulty with which our business is transacted ,  and of the 
peril in which our books and papers over yonder are involved .  
The Lord above knows what the compromising consequences 
would be to numbers of people ,  if some of our documents 
were seized or destroyed  ;  and they might be ,  at any time ,  
you know ,  for who can say that Paris is not set a - fire 
to - day ,  or sacked to - morrow  !  Now ,  a judicious selection 
from these with the least possible delay ,  and the burying 
of them ,  or otherwise getting of them out of harms way ,  
is within the power  ( without loss of precious time )  of scarcely 
any one but myself ,  if any one .  And shall I hang back ,  



MR .  LORRY LAYS HIS PLANS 267 

when Tellsons knows this and says this — Tellsons ,  whose 
bread I have eaten these sixty years — because I am a little 
stiff about the joints ? Why ,  I am a boy ,  sir ,  to half a dozen 
old codgers here  !   "  

 "  How I admire the gallantry of your youthful spirit ,  Mr .  
Lorry .  "  

 " Tut !  Nonsense ,  sir !  — And ,  my dear Charles ,  "  said Mr .  
Lorry ,  glancing at the House again ,   "  you are to remember ,  
that getting things out of Paris at this present time ,  no 
matter what things ,  is next to an impossibility .  Papers 
and precious matters were this veiy day brought to us here 
 ( I speak in strict confidence  ;  it is not business - like to whisper 
it ,  even to you )  ,  by the strangest bearers you can imagine ,  
every one of whom had his head hanging on by a single hair 
as he passed the Barriers .  At another time ,  our parcels 
would come and go ,  as easily as in business - like Old England  ;  
but now ,  everything is stopped .  "  

 " And do you really go to - night? "  

 "  I really go to - night ,  for the case has become too pressing 
to admit of delay .  "  

 "  And do you take no one with you ?  "  

 "  All sorts of people have been proposed to me ,  but I will 
have nothing to say to any of them .  I intend to take Jerry .  
Jerry has been my body - guard on Sunday nights for a long 
time past ,  and I am used to him .  Nobody will suspect 
Jerry of being anything but an English bull - dog ,  or of having 
any design in his head but to fly at anybody who touches 
his master .  "  

 "  I must say again that I heartily admire your gallantry 
and youthfulness .  "  

 " I must say again ,  nonsense ,  nonsense !  When I have 
executed this little commission ,  I shall ,  perhaps ,  accept Tell -  
sons proposal to retire and live at my ease .  Time enough ,  
then ,  to think about growing old .  "  

This dialogue had taken place at Mr .  Lorrys usual desk ,  
with Monseigneur swarming within a yard or two of it ,  
boastful of what he would do to avenge himself on the rascal -  
people before long .  It was too much the way of Monseigneur 
under his reverses as a refugee ,  and it was much too much 
the way of native British orthodoxy ,  to talk of this terrible 
Revolution as if it were the one only harvest ever known 
under the skies that had not been sown — as if nothing had 
ever been done ,  or omitted to be done ,  that had led to it -  • 



268 A TALE OF TWO CITIES 

as if observers of the wretched millions in France ,  and of the 
misused and perverted resources that should have made them 
prosperous ,  had not seen it inevitably coming ,  years before ,  
and had not in plain words recorded what they saw .  Such 
vapouring ,  combined with the extravagant plots of Monseig -  
neur for the restoration of a state of things that had utterly 
exhausted itself ,  and worn out Heaven and earth as well as 
itself ,  was hard to be endured without some remonstrance 
by any sane man who knew the truth .  And it was such 
vapouring all about his ears ,  like a troublesome confusion 
of blood in his own head ,  added to a latent uneasiness in 
his mind ,  which had already made Charles Darnay restless ,  
and which still kept him so .  

Among the talkers ,  was Stryver ,  of the Kings Bench Bar ,  
far on his way to state promotion ,  and ,  therefore ,  loud on the 
theme : broaching to Monseigneur ,  his devices for blowing the 
people up and exterminating them from the face of the earth ,  
and doing without them : and for accomplishing many similar 
objects akin in their nature to the abolition of eagles by 
sprinkling salt on the tails of the race .  Him ,  Darnay heard 
with a particular feeling of objection : and Darnay stood 
divided between going away that he might hear no more ,  and 
remaining to interpose his word ,  when the thing that was to 
be went on to shape itself out .  

The House approached Mr .  Lorry ,  and laying a soiled and 
unopened letter before him ,  asked if he had yet discovered 
any traces of the person to whom it was addressed ? The 
House laid the letter down so close to Darnay that he saw 
the direction — the more quickly because it was his own right 
name .  The address ,  turned into English ,  ran : 

 " Very pressing .  To Monsieur heretofore the Marquis 
St .  Evremonde ,  of France .  Confided to the cares of Messrs ,  
Tellson and Co .  ,  Bankers ,  London ,  England .  "  

On the marriage morning ,  Dr .  Manette had made it his 
one urgent and express request to Charles Darnay ,  that the 
secret of this name should be — unless he .  the Doctor ,  dis -  
solved the obligation — kept inviolate between them .  Nobody 
else knew it to be his name  ;  his own wife had no suspicion 
of the fact  ;  Mr .  Lorry coidd have none .  

 " No ,  "  said Mr .  Lorry ,  in reply to the House ;    ;  I have 
referred it ,  I think ,  to everybody now here ,  and no one can 
tell me where this gentleman is to be found .  "  

The hands of the clock verging upon the hour of closing 



AN UNOPENED LETTER 269 

the Bank ,  there was a general set of the current of talkers 
past Mr .  Lorrys desk .  He held the letter out inquiringly  ;  
and Monseigneur looked at it ,  in the person of this plotting 
and indignant refugee  ;  and Monseigneur looked at it ,  in the 
person of that plotting and indignant refugee  ;  and This ,  
That ,  and The Other ,  all had something disparaging to say ,  
in French or in English ,  concerning the Marquis who was 
not to be found .  

 "  Nephew ,  I believe — but in any case degenerate successor 
— of the polished Marquis who was murdered ,  "  said one .  
 " Happy to say ,  I never knew him .  "  

 " A craven who abandoned his post ,  "  said another — this 
Monseigneur had been got out of Paris ,  legs uppermost and 
half suffocated ,  in a load of hay —  " some years ago .  "  

• Infected with the new doctrines ,  "  said a third ,  eyeing the 
direction through his glass in passing  ;   "  set himself in 
opposition to the last Marquis ,  abandoned the estates when 
he inherited them ,  and left them to the ruffian herd .  They 
will recompense him now ,  I hope ,  as he deserves .  "  

 "  Hey ?  "  cried the blatant Stryver .  ■ Did he though ? Is 
that the sort of fellow ? Let us look at his infamous name .  
D - n the fellow !  "  

Darnay ,  unable to restrain himself any longer ,  touched 
Mr .  Stryver on the shoulder ,  and said : 

 " I know the fellow .  "  

 "  Do you ,  by Jupiter ?  "  said Stryver .   "  I am sorry for it .   "  

« Why ?  "  

 "  Why ,  Mr .  Damay ? Dye hear what he did ? Dont ask ,  
why .  in these times .  "  

 " But I do ask why .  "  

 "  Then I tell you again ,  Mr .  Darnay ,  I am sorry for it .  I 
am sorry to hear you putting any such extraordinary ques -  
tions .  Here is a fellow ,  who ,  infected by the most pestilent 
and blasphemous code of devilry that ever was known ,  aban -  
doned his property to the vilest scum of the earth that ever 
did murder by wholesale ,  and you ask me why I am sorry 
that a man who instructs youth knows him ? Well ,  but Ill 
answer you .  I am sorry because I believe there is con -  
tamination in such a scoundrel .  Thats why .  "  

Mindful of the secret ,  Darnay with great difficulty checked 
himself ,  and said : f You may not understand the gentle -  



man .  



 " I understand how to put you in a corner ,  Mr .  Darnay ,  "  



270 A TALE OF TWO CITIES 

said Bully Stryver ,   "  and Ill do it .  If this fellow is a gentle -  
man ,  I dont understand him .  You may tell him so ,  with my 
compliments .  You may also tell him ,  from me ,  that after 
abandoning his worldly goods and position to this butcherly 
mob ,  I wonder he is not at the head of them .  But ,  no ,  
gentlemen ,  "  said Stryver .  looking all round ,  and snapping his 
fingers ,   " I know something of human nature ,  and I tell you 
that youll never find a fellow like this fellow ,  trusting him -  
self to the mercies of such precious proteges .  No ,  gentlemen  ;  
hell always show em a clean pair of heels very early in the 
scuffle ,  and sneak away .  "  

With those words ,  and a final snap of his fingers .  Mr .  
Stryver shouldered himself into Fleet - street ,  amidst the 
general approbation of his hearers .  Mr .  Lorry and Charles 
Darnay were left alone at the desk ,  in the general departure 
from the Bank .  

 " Will you take charge of the letter? "  said Mr .  Lorry .  
 "  You know where to deliver it ?  "  

 " I do .  "  

 " Will you undertake to explain ,  that we suppose it 
to have been addressed here ,  on the chance of our know -  
ing where to forward it ,  and that it has been here some 
time ?  "  

 " I will do so .  Do you start for Paris from here? "  

 " From here ,  at eight .  "  

 " I will come back ,  to see you off .  "  

Very ill at ease with himself ,  and with Stryver and most 
other men ,  Darnay made the best of his way into the quiet 
of the Temple ,  opened the letter ,  and read it .  These were 
its contents : 

 " Prison of the Abbaye ,  Paris .  
 " June 21 ,  1792 .  

 " Monsieur heretofore the Marquis ,  

 " After having long been in danger of my life at the 
hands of the village ,  I have been seized ,  with great violence 
and indignity ,  and brought a long journey on foot to Paris .  
On the road I have suffered a great deal .  Nor is that all  ;  
my house has been destroyed — razed to the ground .  

 " The crime for which I am imprisoned ,  Monsieur hereto -  
fore the Marquis ,  and for which I shall be summoned before 
the tribunal ,  and shall lose my life  ( without your so generous 
help )  ,  is ,  they tell me ,  treason against the majesty of the 
people ,  in that I have acted against them for an emigrant .  



CONTENTS OF THE LETTER 271 

It is in vain I represent that I have acted for them ,  and not 
against ,  according to your commands .  It is in vain I repre -  
sent that ,  before the sequestration of emigrant property ,  I 
had remitted the imposts they had ceased to pay  ;  that I had 
collected no rent  ;  that I had had recourse to no process .  
The only response is ,  that I have acted for an emigrant ,  and 
where is that emigrant ? 

 "  Ah  !  most gracious Monsieur heretofore the Marquis ,  
where is that emigrant ? I cry in my sleep where is he ? I 
demand of Heaven ,  will he not come to deliver me? No 
answer .  Ah Monsieur heretofore the Marquis ,  I send my 
desolate cry across the sea ,  hoping it may perhaps reach your 
ears through the great bank of Tilson known at Paris  !  

 " For the love of Heaven ,  of justice ,  of generosity ,  of the 
honour of your noble name ,  I supplicate you ,  Monsieur here -  
tofore the Marquis ,  to succour and release me .  My fault is ,  
that I have been true to you .  Oh Monsieur heretofore the 
Marquis ,  I pray you be you true to me  !  

 "  From this prison here of horror ,  whence I every hour 
tend nearer and nearer to destruction ,  I send you ,  Monsieur 
heretofore the Marquis ,  the assurance of my dolorous and 
unhappy service .  

 " Your afflicted 



a 



Gabelle .  



The latent uneasiness in Darnays mind was roused to 
vigorous life by this letter .  The peril of an old servant and 
a good one ,  whose only crime was fidelity to himself and his 
family ,  stared him so reproachfully in the face ,  that ,  as he 
walked to and fro in the Temple considering what to do ,  he 
almost hid his face from the passers - by .  

He knew very well ,  that in his horror of the deed which 
had culminated the bad deeds and bad reputation of the old 
family house ,  in his resentful suspicions of his uncle ,  and in 
the aversion with which his conscience regarded the crum -  
bling fabric that he was supposed to uphold ,  he had acted 
imperfectly .  He knew very well ,  that in his love for Lucie ,  
his renunciation of his social place ,  though by no means new 
to his own mind ,  had been hurried and incomplete .  He 
knew that he ought to have systematically worked it out 
and supervised it ,  and that he had meant to do it ,  and that 
it had never been done .  

The happiness of his own chosen English home ,  the neces -  



272 A TALE OF TWO CITIES 

sity of being always actively employed ,  the swift changes and 
troubles of the time which had followed on one another so 
fast ,  that the events of this week annihilated the immature 
plans of last week ,  and the events of the week following 
made all new again  ;  he knew very well ,  that to the force of 
these circumstances he had yielded :— not without disquiet ,  
but still without continuous and accumulating resistance .  
That he had watched the times for a time of action ,  and that 
they had shifted and struggled until the time had goneby ,  
and the nobility were trooping from France by every high -  
way and byway ,  and their property was in course of confisca -  
tion and destruction ,  and their very names were blotting 
out ,  was as well known to himself as it could be to any new 
authority in France that might impeach him for it .  

But ,  he had oppressed no man ,  he had imprisoned no man ;  
he was so far from having harshly exacted payment of his 
dues ,  that he had relinquished them of his own will ,  thrown 
himself on a world with no favour in it ,  won his own private 
place there ,  and earned his own bread .  Monsieur Gabelle 
had held the impoverished and involved estate on written 
instructions ,  to spare the people ,  to give them what little 
there was to give— such fuel as the heavy creditors would 
let them have in the winter ,  and such produce as could be 
saved from the same grip in the summer— and no doubt he 
had put the fact in plea and proof ,  for his own safety ,  so 
that it could not but appear now .  

This favoured the desperate resolution Charles Darnay had 
begun to make ,  that he would go to Paris .  

Yes .  Like the mariner in the old story ,  the winds and 
streams had driven him within the influence of the Load -  
stone Rock ,  and it was drawing him to itself ,  and he must 
go .  Everything that arose before his mind drifted him on ,  
faster and faster ,  more and more steadily ,  to the terrible 
attraction .  His latent uneasiness had been ,  that bad aims 
were being worked out in his own unhappy land by bad 
instruments ,  and that he who could not fail to know that he 
was better than they ,  was not there ,  trying to do something 
to stay bloodshed ,  and assert the claims of mercy and 
humanity .  With this uneasiness half stifled ,  and half 
reproaching him ,  he had been brought to the pointed com -  
parison of himself with the brave old gentleman in whom 
duty was so strong  ;  upon that comparison  ( injurious to him -  
self )  had instantly followed the sneers of Monseigneur ,  



IN THE VORTEX OF THE WHIRLPOOL 273 

which had stung him bitterly ,  and those of Stryver ,  which 
above all were coarse and galling ,  for old reasons .  Upon 
those ,  had followed Gabelles letter : the appeal of an 
innocent prisoner ,  in danger of death ,  to his justice ,  honour ,  
and good name .  

His resolution was made .  He must go to Paris .  

Yes .  The Loadstone Eock was drawing him ,  and he must 
sail on ,  until he struck .  He knew of no rock  ;  he saw 
hardly any danger .  The intention with which he had done 
what he had done ,  even although he had left it incomplete ,  
presented it before him in an aspect that would be gratefully 
acknowledged in France on his presenting himself to assert 
it .  Then ,  that glorious vision of doing good ,  which is so 
often the sanguine mirage of so many good minds ,  arose 
before him ,  and he even saw himself in the illusion with 
some influence to guide this raging Revolution that was run -  
ning so fearfully wild .  

As he walked to and fro with his resolution made ,  he 
considered that neither Lucie nor her father must know of 
it until he was gone .  Lucie should be spared the pain of 
separation  ;  and her father ,  always reluctant to turn his 
thoughts towards the dangerous ground of old ,  should come 
to the knowledge of the step ,  as a step taken ,  and not in the 
balance of suspense and doubt .  How much of the incom -  
pleteness of his situation was referable to her father ,  through 
the painful anxiety to avoid reviving old associations 
of France in his mind ,  he did not discuss with himself .  
But ,  that circumstance too ,  had had its influence in his 
course .  

He walked to and fro ,  with thoughts very busy ,  until it 
was time to return to Tellsons and take leave of Mr .  Lorry .  
As soon as he arrived in Paris he would present himself to 
this old friend ,  but he must say nothing of his intention 
now .  

A carriage with post - horses was ready at the Bank door ,  
and Jerry was booted and equipped .  

 "  I have delivered that letter ,  "  said Charles Darnay to 
Mr .  Lorry .   "  I would not consent to your being charged 
with any written answer ,  but perhaps you will take a verbal 
one ?  "  

 "  That I will ,  and readily ,  "  said Mr .  Lorry ,   "  if it is not 
dangerous .  "  

 "  Not at all .  Though it is to a prisoner in the Abbaye .  "  



274 A TALE 0F TW0 CITIES 

 "  What is his name ?  "  said Mr .  Lorry ,  with his open 
pocket - book in his hand .  

 "  Gabelle .  "  

 "  Gabelle .  And what is the message to the unfortunate 
Gabelle in prison ?  "  

• Simply ,   that he has received the letter ,  and will come .   

 "  Any time mentioned ?  "  

 "  He will start upon his journey to - morrow night .  "  

 "  Any person mentioned ?  "  

 " No .  "  

He helped Mr .  Lorry to wrap himself in a number of 
coats and cloaks ,  and went out with him from the warm 
atmosphere of the old Bank ,  into the misty air of Fleet -  
street .   "  My love to Lucie ,  and to little Lucie ,  "  said Mr .  
Lorry at parting ,   " and take precious care of them till I come 
back .  "  Charles Darnay shook his head and doubtfully 
smiled ,  as the carriage rolled away .  

That night — it was the fourteenth of August — he sat up 
late ,  and wrote two fervent letters  ;  one was to Lucie ,  
explaining the strong obligation he was under to go to 
Paris ,  and showing her ,  at length ,  the reasons that he had ,  
for feeling confident that he could become involved in no 
personal danger there  ;  the other was to the Doctor ,  confid -  
ing Lucie and their dear child to his care ,  and dwelling on 
the same topics with the strongest assurances .  To both ,  he 
wrote that he would despatch letters in proof of his safety ,  
immediately after his arrival .  

It was a hard day ,  that day of being among them ,  with 
the first reservation of their joint lives on his mind .  It was 
a hard matter to preserve the innocent deceit of which they 
were profoundly unsuspicious .  But ,  an affectionate glance 
at his wife ,  so happy and busy ,  made him resolute not to 
tell her what impended  ( he had been half moved to do it ,  so 
strange it was to him to act in anything without her quiet 
aid )  ,  and the day passed quickly away .  Early in the even -  
ing he embraced her ,  and her scarcely less dear namesake ,  
pretending that he would return by - and - by  ( an imaginary 
engagement took him out ,  and he had secreted a valise of 
clothes ready )  ,  and so he emerged into the heavy mist of the 
heavy streets ,  with a heavier heart .  

The unseen force was drawing him fast to itself ,  now ,  and 
all the tides and winds were setting straight and strong 
towards it .  He left his two letters with a trusty porter ,  to 



THE LOADSTONE ROCK 275 

be delivered half an hour before midnight ,  and no sooner  ;  
took horse for Dover ;  and began his journey .   " For the 
love of Heaven ,  of justice ,  of generosity ,  of the honour of 
your noble name  !   "  was the poor prisoners cry with which 
he strengthened his sinking heart ,  as he left all that was 
dear on earth behind him ,  and floated away for the Load -  
stone Eock .  



THE END OP THE SECOND BOOK 



BOOK THE THIRD: 
THE TRACK OF A STORM 

CHAPTER I 

IN SECRET 

The traveller fared slowly on his way ,  who fared towards 
Paris from England in the autumn of the year one thousand 
seven hundred and ninety - two .  More than enough of bad 
roads ,  bad equipages ,  and bad horses ,  he would have en -  
countered to delay him ,  though the fallen and unfortunate 
King of France had been upon his throne in all his glory  ;  
but ,  the changed times were fraught with other obstacles 
than these .  Every town - gate and village taxing - house had 
its band of citizen - patriots ,  with their national muskets in a 
most explosive state of readiness ,  who stopped all comers 
and goers ,  cross - questioned them ,  inspected their papers ,  
looked for their names in lists of their own ,  turned them 
back ,  or sent them on ,  or stopped them and laid them in 
hold ,  as their capricious judgment or fancy deemed best for 
the dawning Eepublic One and Indivisible ,  of Liberty ,  
Equality ,  Fraternity ,  or Death .  

A very few French leagues of his journey were accom -  
plished ,  when Charles Darnay began to perceive that for 
him along these country roads there was no hope of return 
until he should have been declared a good citizen at Paris .  
Whatever might befall now ,  he must on to his journeys 
end .  Not a mean village closed upon him ,  not a common 
barrier dropped across the road behind him ,  but he knew it 
to be another iron door in the series that was barred between 
him and England .  The universal watchfulness so encom -  
passed Mm ,  that if he had been taken in a net ,  or were being 
forwarded to his destination in a cage ,  he could not have felt 
his freedom more completely gone .  



UNDER AN ESCOET 277 

This universal watchfulness not only stopped him on the 
highway twenty times in a stage ,  but retarded his progress 
twenty times in a day ,  by riding after him and taking him 
back ,  riding before him and stopping him by anticipation ,  
riding with him and keeping him in charge .  He had been 
days upon his journey in France alone ,  when he went to bed 
tired out ,  in a little town on the high road ,  still a long way 
from Paris .  

Nothing but the production of the afflicted Gabelles letter 
from his prison of the Abbaye would have got him on so far .  
His difficulty at the guard - house in this small place had 
been such ,  that he felt his journey to have come to a crisis .  
And he was ,  therefore ,  as little surprised as a man could 
be ,  to find himself awakened at the small inn to which 
he had been remitted until morning ,  in the middle of the 
night .  

Awakened by a timid local functionary and three armed 
patriots in rough red caps and with pipes in their mouths ,  
who sat clown on the bed .  

 " Emigrant ,  "  said the functionary ,   " I am going to send 
you on to Paris ,  under an escort .   "  

 " Citizen ,  I desire nothing more than to get to Paris ,  
though I could dispense with the escort .  "  

 "  Silence  !   "  growled a red - cap ,  striking at the coverlet 
with the butt - end of his musket .   " Peace ,  aristocrat  !   "  

 " It is as the good patriot says ,  "  observed the timid 
functionary .   " You are an aristocrat ,  and must have an 
escort — and must pay for it .  "  

 " I have no choice ,  "  said Charles Darnay .  
 " Choice  !  Listen to him  !   "  cried the same scowling red -  
cap .   " As if it was not a favour to be protected from the 
lamp - iron  !   "  

 " It is always as the good patriot says ,  "  observed the 
functionary .   "  Rise and dress yourself ,  emigrant "  

Darnay complied ,  and was taken back to the guard - house ,  
where other patriots in rough red caps were smoking ,  drink -  
ing ,  and sleeping ,  by a watch - fire .  Here he paid a heavy 
price for his escort ,  and hence he started with it on the wet ,  
wet roads at three oclock in the morning .  

The escort were two mounted patriots in red caps and 
tricoloured cockades ,  armed with national muskets and sabres ,  
who rode one on either side of him .  The escorted governed 
his own horse ,  but a loose line was attached to his bridle ,  the 



278 A TALE OF TWO CITIES 

end of which one of the patriots kept girded round his 
wrist .  In this state they set forth with the sharp rain driving 
in their faces : clattering at a heavy dragoon trot over the 
uneven town pavement ,  and out upon the mire - deep roads .  
In this state they traversed without change ,  except of horses 
and pace ,  all the mire - deep leagues that lay between them 
and the capital .  

They travelled in the night ,  halting an hour or two after 
daybreak ,  and lying by until the twilight fell .  The escort 
were so wretchedly clothed ,  that they twisted straw round 
their bare legs ,  and thatched their ragged shoulders to keep 
the wet off .  Apart from the personal discomfort of being 
so attended ,  and apart from such considerations of present 
danger as arose from one of the patriots being chronically 
drunk ,  and carrying his musket very recklessly ,  Charles 
Darnay did not allow the restraint that was laid upon him 
to awaken any serious fears in his breast  ;  for ,  he reasoned 
with himself that it could have no reference to the merits of 
an individual case that was not yet stated ,  and of represen -  
tations ,  confirmable by the prisoner in the Abbaye ,  that were 
not yet made .  

But when they came to the town of Beauvais —which they 
did at eventide ,  when the streets were filled with people — he 
could not conceal from himself that the aspect of affairs was 
very alarming .  An ominous crowd gathered to see him dis -  
mount at the posting -  yard ,  and many voices called out loudly ,  
 "  Down with the emigrant  !  * 

He stopped in the act of swinging himself out of his 
saddle ,  and ,  resuming it as his safest place ,  said : 

 "  Emigrant ,  my friends  !  Do you not see me here ,  in 
France ,  of my own will ?  "  

 " You are a cursed emigrant ,  "  cried a farrier ,  making at 
him in a furious manner through the press ,  hammer in hand  ;  
 "  and you are a cursed aristocrat  !   "  

The postmaster interposed himself between this man and 
the riders bridle  ( at which he was evidently making )  ,  and 
soothingly said ,   "  Let him be  ;  let him be  !  He will be 
judged at Paris .  "  

 "  Judged  !   "  repeated the farrier ,  swinging his hammer .  
 "  Ay  !  and condemned as a traitor .  "  At this the crowd 
roared approval .  

Checking the postmaster ,  who was for turning his horses 
head to the yard  ( the drunken patriot sat composedly in his 



A FURIOUS CROWD 279 

saddle looking on ,  with the line round his wrist )  ,  Darnay 
said ,  as soon as he could make his voice heard : 

 " Friends ,  you deceive yourselves ,  or you are deceived .  I am 
not a traitor .  "  

 "  He lies  !   "  cried the smith .   "  He is a traitor since the 
decree .  His life is forfeit to the people .  His cursed life is 
not his own  !   "  

At the instant when Darnay saw a rush in the eyes of the 
crowd ,  which another instant would have brought upon him ,  
the postmaster turned his horse into the yard ,  the escort 
rode in close upon his horses flanks ,  and the postmaster 
shut and barred the crazy double gates .  The farrier struck 
a blow upon them with his hammer ,  and the crowd groaned  ;  
but ,  no more was done .  

 " What is this decree that the smith spoke of? "  Darnay 
asked the postmaster ,  when he had thanked him ,  and stood 
beside him in the yard .  

 " Truly ,  a decree for selling the property of emigrants .  "  

 "  When passed ?  "  

 " On the fourteenth .  "  

 "  The day I left England  !   "  

 "  Everybody says it is but one of several ,  and that there 
will be others — if there are not already — banishing all 
emigrants ,  and condemning all to death who return .  That 
is what he meant when he said your life was not your own .   "  

 "  But there are no such decrees yet?  "  

 "  What do I know  !   "  said the postmaster ,  shrugging his 
shoulders  ;   "  there may be ,  or there will be .  It is all the 
same .  What would you have ?  "  

They rested on some straw in a loft until the middle of 
the night ,  and then rode forward again when all the town 
was asleep .  Among the many wild changes observable on 
familiar things which made this wild ride unreal ,  not the 
least was the seeming rarity of sleep .  After long and lonely 
spurring over dreary roads ,  they would come to a cluster 
of poor cottages ,  not steeped in darkness ,  but all glittering 
with lights ,  and would find the people ,  in a ghostly manner 
in the dead of the night ,  circling hand in hand round a 
shrivelled tree of Liberty ,  or all drawn up together singing 
a Liberty song .  Happily ,  however ,  there was sleep in 
Beauvais that night to help them out of it ,  and they passed 
on once more into solitude and loneliness : jingling through 
the untimely cold and wet ,  among impoverished fields that 



280 A TALE OF TWO CITIES 

had yielded no fruits of the earth that year ,  diversified by 
the blackened remains of burnt houses ,  and by the sudden 
emergence from ambuscade ,  and sharp reining up across 
their way ,  of patriot patrols on the watch on all the roads .  

Daylight at last found them before the wall of Paris .  
The barrier was closed and strongly guarded when they rode 
up to it .  

 " Where are the papers of this prisoner? "  demanded a 
resolutedooking man in authority ,  who was summoned out 
by the guard .  

Naturally struck by the disagreeable word ,  Charles Darnay 
requested the speaker to take notice that he was a free 
traveller and French citizen ,  in charge of an escort which 
the disturbed state of the country had imposed upon him ,  
and which he had paid for .  

 " Where ,  "  repeated the same personage ,  without taking any 
heed of him whatever ,   "  are the papers of this prisoner ?  "  

The drunken patriot had them in his cap ,  and produced 
them .  Casting his eyes over Gabelles letter ,  the same 
personage in authority showed some disorder and surprise ,  
and looked at Darnay with a close attention .  

He left escort and escorted without saying a word ,  how -  
ever ,  and went into the guard - room  ;  meanwhile ,  they sat 
upon their horses outside the gate .  Looking about him 
while hi tins state of suspense ,  Charles Darnay observed 
that the gate was held by a mixed guard of soldiers and 
patriots ,  the latter far outnumbering the former  ;  and that 
while ingress into the city for peasants carts bringing in 
supplies ,  and for similar traffic and traffickers ,  was easy 
enough ,  egress ,  even for the homeliest people ,  was very 
difficult .  A numerous medley of men and women ,  not to 
mention beasts and vehicles of various sorts ,  was waiting 
to issue forth  ;  but ,  the previous identification was so strict ,  
that they filtered through the barrier very slowly .  Some 
of these people knew their turn for examination to be so far 
off ,  that they lay down on the ground to sleep or smoke ,  
while others talked together ,  or loitered about .  The red 
cap and tricolour cockade were universal ,  both among men 
and women .  

When he had sat in his saddle some half - hour ,  taking note 
of these things ,  Darnay found himself confronted by the 
same man in authority ,  who directed the guard to open the 
barrier .  Then he delivered to the escort ,  drunk and sober ,  



CONSIGNED TO PRISON 283 

a receipt for the escorted ,  and requested him to dismount .  
He did so ,  and the two patriots ,  leading his tired horse ,  
turned and rode away without entering the city .  

He accompanied his conductor into a guard - room ,  smelling 
of common wine and tobacco ,  where certain soldiers and 
patriots ,  asleep and awake ,  drunk and sober ,  and in various 
neutral states between sleeping and waking ,  drunkenness 
and sobriety ,  were standing and lying about .  The light in 
the guard - house ,  half derived from the waning oil - lamps of 
the night ,  and half from the overcast day ,  was in a corre -  
spondingly uncertain condition .  Some registers were lying 
open on a desk ,  and an officer of a coarse ,  dark aspect ,  
presided over these .  

 "  Citizen Defarge ,  "  said he to Darnays conductor ,  as he 
took a slip of paper to write on .   " Is this the emigrant 
Evremonde ?  "  

 " This is the man .  "  

 "  Your age ,  Evremonde ?  "  

 " Thirty - seven .  "  

 " Married ,  Evremonde? "  

 "  Yes .  "  

 "  Where married ?  "  

 " In England .  "  

 "  Without doubt .  Where is your wife ,  Evremonde ?  "  

• In England .  "  

 "  Without doubt .  You are consigned ,  Evremonde ,  to the 
prison of La Force .  "  

 "  Just Heaven  !   "  exclaimed Darnay .   "  Under what law ,  
and for what offence ?  "  

The officer looked up from his slip of paper for a moment .  

 "  We have new laws ,  Evremonde ,  and new offences ,  since 
you were here .  "  He said it with a hard smile ,  and went on 
writing .  

 " I entreat you to observe that I have come here volun -  
tarily ,  in response to that written appeal of a fellow - country -  
man which lies before you .  I demand no more than 
the opportunity to do so without delay .  Is not that my 
right ?  "  

 " Emigrants have no rights ,  Evremonde ,  "  was the stolid 
reply .  The officer wrote until he had finished ,  read over to 
himself what he had written ,  sanded it .  and handed it to 
Defarge .  with the words  " In secret .  "  

Defarge motioned with the paper to the prisoner that he 



284 A TALE OF TWO CITIES 

must accompany him .  The prisoner obeyed ,  and a guard 
of two armed patriots attended them .  

 " Is it you ,  "  said Defarge ,  in a low voice ,  as they went 
down the guard - house steps and turned into Paris ,   "  who 
married the daughter of Doctor Manette ,  once a prisoner in 
the Bastille that is no more ?  "  

 "  Yes ,  "  replied Darnay ,  looking at him with surprise .  

 "  My name is Defarge ,  and I keep a wine - shop in the 
Quarter Saint Antoine .  Possibly you have heard of me .  "  

 "  My wife came to your house to reclaim her father ? 
Yes  !   "  

The word  "  wife  "  seemed to serve as a gloomy reminder 
to Defarge ,  to say with sudden impatience ,   "  In the name 
of that sharp female newly - born ,  and called La Guillotine ,  
why did you come to France ?  "  

 " You heard me say why ,  a minute ago .  Do you not 
believe it is the truth? "  

 " A bad truth for you ,  "  said Defarge ,  speaking with 
knitted brows ,  and looking straight before him .  

 "  Indeed I am lost here .  All here is so unprecedented ,  so 
changed ,  so sudden and unfair ,  that I am absolutely lost .  
Will you render me a little help ?  "  

 " None .  "  Defarge spoke ,  always looking straight before 
him .  

 "  Will you answer me a single question ?  "  

 "  Perhaps .  According to its nature .  You can say what 
it is .  "  

 " In this prison that I am going to so unjustly ,  shall 
I have some free communication with the world outside ?  "  

 " You will see .  "  

 " I am not to be buried there ,  prejudged ,  and without any 
means of presenting my case ?  "  

 "  You will see .  But ,  what then ? Other people have 
been similarly buried in worse prisons ,  before now .  "  

 "  But never by me ,  Citizen Defarge .  "  

Defarge glanced darkly at him for answer ,  and walked on 
in a steady and set silence .  The deeper he sank into this 
silence ,  the fainter hope there was — or so Darnay thought — 
of his softening in any slight degree .  He ,  therefore ,  made 
haste to say : 

 " It is of the utmost importance to me  ( you know .  Citizen ,  
even better than I ,  of how much importance )  ,  that I should 
be able to communicate to Mr .  Lorry of Tellsons Bank ,  an 



NO HELP FROM DEFARGE 285 

English gentleman who is now in Paris ,  the simple fact ,  
without comment ,  that I have been thrown into the prison 
of La Force .  Will you cause that to be done for me ?  "  

 " I will do ,  "  Defarge doggedly rejoined ,   " nothing for 
you .  My duty is to my country and the People .  I am the 
sworn servant of both ,  against you .  I will do nothing for 
you .  "  

Charles Darnay felt it hopeless to entreat him further ,  
and his pride was touched besides .  As they walked on in 
silence ,  he could not but see how used the people were to 
the spectacle of prisoners passing along the streets .  The 
very children scarcely noticed him .  A few passers turned 
their heads ,  and a few shook their fingers at him as an 
aristocrat  ;  otherwise ,  that a man in good clothes should be 
going to prison ,  was no more remarkable than that a labourer 
in working clothes should be going to work .  In one narrow ,  
dark ,  and dirty street through which they passed ,  an excited 
orator ,  mounted on a stool ,  was addressing an excited 
audience on the crimes against the people ,  of the king and 
the royal family .  The few words that he caught from this 
mans lips ,  first made it known to Charles Darnay that the 
king was in prison ,  and that the foreign ambassadors had 
one and all left Paris .  On the road  ( except at Beauvais )  he 
had heard absolutely nothing .  The escort and the universal 
watchfulness had completely isolated him .  

That he had fallen among far greater dangers than those 
which had developed themselves when he left England ,  he 
of course knew now .  That perils had thickened about him 
fast ,  and might thicken faster and faster yet ,  he of course 
knew now .  He could not but admit to himself that he 
might not have made this journey ,  if he could have foreseen 
the events of a few days .  And yet his misgivings were not 
so dark as ,  imagined by the light of this later time ,  they 
would appear .  Troubled as the future was ,  it was the un -  
known future ,  and in its obscurity there was ignorant hope .  
The horrible massacre ,  days and nights long ,  which ,  within 
a few rounds of the clock ,  was to set a great mark of blood 
upon the blessed garnering time of harvest ,  was as far out 
of his knowledge as if it had been a hundred thousand years 
away .  The  " sharp female newly - born ,  and called La 
Guillotine ,  "  was hardly known to him ,  or to the generality 
of people ,  by name .  The frightful deeds that were to be 
soon done ,  were probably unimagined at that time in the 



286 A TALE OF TWO CITIES 

brains of the doers .  How could they have a place in the 
shadowy conceptions of a gentle mind ? 

Of unjust treatment in detention and hardship ,  and in 
cruel separation from his wife and child ,  he foreshadowed 
the likelihood ,  or the certainty  ;  but ,  beyond this ,  he dreaded 
nothing distinctly .  With this on his mind ,  which was 
enough to carry into a dreary prison court - yard ,  he arrived 
at the prison of La Force .  

A man with a bloated face opened the strong wicket ,  to 
whom Defarge presented  "  The Emigrant Evremonde .  "  

 "  What the Devil  !  How many more of them  !   "  exclaimed 
the man with the bloated face .  

Defarge took his receipt without noticing the exclamation ,  
and withdrew ,  with his two fellow - patriots .  

 " What the Devil ,  I say again  !   "  exclaimed the gaoler ,  left 
with his wife .   "  How many more  !   "  

The gaolers wife ,  being provided with no answer to the 
question ,  merely replied ,   "  One must have patience ,  my 
dear  !   "  Three turnkeys who entered responsive to a bell 
she rang ,  echoed the sentiment ,  and one added ,   "  For the 
love of Liberty  ;   "  which sounded in that place like an 
inappropriate conclusion .  

The prison of La Force was a gloomy prison ,  dark and 
filthy ,  and with a horrible smell of foul sleep in it .  Extra -  
ordinary how soon the noisome flavour of imprisoned sleep ,  
becomes manifest in all such places that are ill cared for  !  

 "  In secret ,  too ,  "  grumbled the gaoler ,  looking at the 
written paper .   "  As if I was not already full to bursting  !   "  

He stuck the paper on a file ,  in an ill - humour ,  and Charles 
Darnay awaited his further pleasure for half an hour : some -  
times ,  pacing to and fro in the strong arched room : some -  
times ,  resting on a stone seat : in either case detained to be 
imprinted on the memory of the chief and his subordinates .  

Come !  "  said the chief ,  at length taking up his keys ,  
 " come with me ,  emigrant .  "  

Through the dismal prison twilight ,  his new charge ac -  
companied him by corridor and staircase ,  many doors 
clanging and locking behind them ,  until they came into 
a large ,  low ,  vaulted chamber ,  crowded with prisoners of 
both sexes .  The women were seated at a long table ,  reading 
and writing ,  knitting ,  sewing ,  and embroidering  ;  the men 
were for the most part standing behind their chairs ,  or 
lingering up and down the room .  



IN THE PRISON OF LA FORCE 287 

In the instinctive association of prisoners with shameful 
crime and disgrace ,  the new - comer recoiled from this 
company .  But the crowning unreality of his long unreal 
ride ,  was ,  their all at once rising to receive him ,  with every 
refinement of manner known to the time ,  and with all the 
engaging graces and courtesies of life .  

So strangely clouded were these refinements by the prison 
manners and gloom ,  so spectral did they become in the in -  
appropriate squalor and miseiy through which they were 
seen ,  that Charles Darnay seemed to stand in a company of 
the dead .  Ghosts all  !  The ghost of beauty ,  the ghost of 
stateliness ,  the ghost of elegance ,  the ghost of pride ,  the 
ghost of frivolity ,  the ghost of wit ,  the ghost of youth ,  the 
ghost of age ,  all waiting their dismissal from the desolate 
shore ,  all turning on him eyes that were changed by the 
death they had died in coming there .  

It struck him motionless .  The gaoler standing at his 
side ,  and the other gaolers moving about ,  who would have 
been well enough as to appearance in the ordinary exercise 
of their functions ,  looked so extravagantly coarse contrasted 
with sorrowing mothers and blooming daughters who were 
there — with the apparitions of the coquette ,  the young 
beauty ,  and the mature woman delicately bred — that the 
inversion of all experience and likelihood which the scene 
of shadows presented ,  was heightened to its utmost .  Surely ,  
ghosts all .  Surely ,  the long unreal ride some progress of 
disease that had brought him to these gloomy shades  !  

 "  In the name of the assembled companions in mis -  
fortune ,  "  said a gentleman of courtly appearance and address ,  
coming forward ,   "  I have the honour of giving you welcome 
to La Force ,  and of condoling with you on the calamity that 
has brought you among us .  May it soon terminate happily  !  
It would be an impertinence elsewhere ,  but it is not so here ,  
to ask your name and condition ?  "  

Charles Darnay roused himself ,  and gave the required 
information ,  in words as suitable as he could find .  

 "  But I hope ,  "  said the gentleman ,  following the chief 
gaoler with his eyes ,  who moved across the room ,   "  that you 
are not in secret ?  "  

 "  I do not understand the meaning of the term ,  but I have 
heard them say so .  "  

 "  Ah ,  what a pity  !  We so much regret it  !  But take 
courage  ;  several members of our society have been in secret ,  



288 A TALE OF TWO CITIES 

at first ,  and it has lasted but a short time .  "  Then he 
added ,  raising his voice ,   " I grieve to inform the society — 
in secret .  "  

There was a murmur of commiseration as Charles Darnay 
crossed the room to a grated door where the gaoler awaited 
him ,  and many voices — among which ,  the soft and com 
passionate voices of women were conspicuous — gave him 
good wishes and encouragement .  He turned at the grated 
door ,  to render the thanks of his heart  ;  it closed under the 
gaolers hand  ;  and the apparitions vanished from his sight 
for ever .  

The wicket opened on a stone staircase ,  leading upward .  
When they had ascended forty steps  ( the prisoner of half an 
hour already counted them )  ,  the gaoler opened a low black 
door ,  and they passed into a solitary cell .  It struck cold 
and damp ,  but was not dark .  

 "  Yours ,  "  said the gaoler .  

 "  Why am I confined alone ?  "  

 "  How do I know  !   "  

 " I can buy pen ,  ink ,  and paper ?  "  

 "  Such are not my orders .  You will be visited ,  and can 
ask then .  At present ,  you may buy your food ,  and nothing 
more .  "  

There were in the cell ,  a chair ,  a table ,  and a straw 
mattress .  As the gaoler made a general inspection of these 
objects ,  and of the four walls ,  before going out ,  a wandering 
fancy wandered through the mind of the prisoner leaning 
against the wall opposite to him ,  that this gaoler was so 
unwholesomely bloated ,  both in face and person ,  as to look 
like a man who had been drowned and filled with water .  
When the gaoler was gone ,  he thought in the same wander -  
ing way ,   "  Now am I left ,  as if I were dead .  "  Stopping 
then ,  to look down at the mattress ,  he turned from it with 
a sick feeling ,  and thought ,   "  And here in these crawling 
creatures is the first condition of the body after death .  "  

 "  Five paces by four and a half ,  five paces by four and 
a half ,  five paces by four and a half .  "  The prisoner walked 
to and fro in his cell ,  counting its measurement ,  and the 
roar of the city arose like muffled drums with a wild swell 
of voices added to them .   "  He made shoes ,  he made shoes ,  
he made shoes .  "  The prisoner counted the measurement 
again ,  and paced faster ,  to draw his mind with him from 
that latter repetition .   "  The ghosts that vanished when the 



IN SECRET 289 

wicket closed .  There was one among them ,  the appearance 
of a lady dressed in black ,  who was leaning in the embrasure 
of a window ,  and she had a light shining upon her golden 
hair ,  and she looked like * * * * Let us ride on again ,  for 
Gods sake ,  through the illuminated villages with the people 
all awake I * * * * He made shoes ,  he made shoes ,  he 
made shoes .  * * * * Five paces by four and a half .  "  With 
such scraps tossing and rolling upward from the depths of 
his mind ,  the prisoner walked faster and faster ,  obstinately 
counting and counting  ;  and the roar of the city changed to 
this extent — that it still rolled in like muffled drums ,  but 
with the wail of voices that he knew ,  in the swell that rose 
above them .  



1 .  



CHAPTER II 

THE GRINDSTONE 

Tellsons Bank ,  established in the Saint Germain Quarter 
of Paris ,  was in a wing of a large house ,  approached by 
a court - yard and shut off from the street by a high wall and 
a strong gate .  The house belonged to a great nobleman who 
had lived in it until he made a flight from the troubles ,  in 
his own cooks dress ,  and got across the borders .  A mere 
beast of the chase flying from hunters ,  he was still in his 
metempsychosis no other than the same Monseigneur ,  the 
preparation of whose chocolate for whose lips had once 
occupied three strong men besides the cook in question .  

Monseigneur gone ,  and the three strong men absolving 
themselves from the sin of having drawn his high wages ,  by 
being more than ready and willing to cut his throat on the 
altar of the dawning Republic one and indivisible of Liberty .  
Equality ,  Fraternity ,  or Death ,  Monseigneurs house had been 
first sequestrated ,  and then confiscated .  For ,  all things 
moved so fast ,  and decree followed decree with that fierce 
precipitation ,  that now upon the third night of the autumn 
month of September ,  patriot emissaries of the law were in 
possession of Monseigneurs house ,  and had marked it with 
the tricolour ,  and were drinking brandy in its state apart -  
ments .  

A place of business in London like Tellsons place of 
business in Paris ,  would soon have driven the House out 
of its mind and into the Gazette .  For ,  what would staid 
British responsibility and respectability have said to orange -  
trees in boxes in a Bank court - yard ,  and even to a Cupid 
over the counter? Yet such things were .  Tellsons had 
whitewashed the Cupid ,  but he was still to be seen on the 
ceiling ,  in the coolest linen ,  aiming  ( as he very often does )  
at money from morning to night .  Bankruptcy must in -  
evitably have come of this young Pagan ,  in Lombard - street .  
London ,  and also of a curtained alcove in the rear of the 



ME .  JARVIS LORRY IN PARIS 29T 

immortal boy ,  and also of a looking - glass let into the wall ,  
and also of clerks not at all old ,  who danced in public on the 
slightest provocation .  Yet ,  a French Tellsons could get on 
with these things exceedingly well ,  and ,  as long as the times 
held together ,  no man had taken fright at them ,  and drawn 
out his money .  

What money would be drawn out of Tellsons henceforth ,  
and what would lie there ,  lost and forgotten  ;  what plate 
and jewels would tarnish in Tellsons hiding - places ,  while 
the depositors rusted in prisons ,  and when they should have 
violently perished  ;  how many accounts with Tellsons never 
to be balanced in this world ,  must be carried over into the 
next  ;  no man could have said ,  that night ,  any more than 
Mr .  Jarvis Lorry could ,  though he thought heavily of these 
questions .  He sat by a newly - lighted wood fire  ( the blighted 
and unfruitful year was prematurely cold )  ,  and on his honest 
and courageous face there was a deeper shade than the 
pendent lamp could throw ,  or any object in the room 
distortedly reflect — a shade of horror .  

He occupied rooms in the Bank ,  in his fidelity to the 
House of which he had grown to be a part ,  like strong root -  
ivy .  It chanced that they derived a kind of security from 
the patriotic occupation of the main building ,  but the true -  
hearted old gentleman never calculated about that .  All 
such circumstances were indifferent to him ,  so that he did 
his duty .  On the opposite side of the court - yard ,  under 
a colonnade ,  was extensive standing for carriages — where ,  
indeed ,  some carriages of Monseigneur yet stood .  Against 
two of the pillars were fastened two great flaring flambeaux ,  
and in the light of these ,  standing out in the open air ,  was 
a large giindstone : a roughly mounted thing which appeared 
to have hurriedly been brought there from some neighbour -  
ing smithy ,  or other workshop .  Kising and looking out of 
window at these harmless objects ,  Mr .  Lorry shivered ,  and 
retired to his seat by the fire .  He had opened ,  not only the 
glass window ,  but the lattice blind outside it ,  and he had 
closed both again ,  and he shivered through his frame .  

From the streets beyond the high wall and the strong gate ,  
there came the usual night hum of the city ,  with now and 
then an indescribable ring in it ,  weird and unearthly ,  as if 
some unwonted sounds of a terrible nature were going up to 
Heaven .  

•• Thank God ,  "  said Mr .  Lorry ,  clasping his hands ,   "  that 



292 A TALE OF TWO CITIES 

no one near and dear to me is in this dreadful town to - night .  
May He have mercy on all who are in danger  !   "  

Soon afterwards ,  the hell at the great gate sounded ,  and 
he thought ,   "  They have come hack  !   "  and sat listening .  
But ,  there was no loud irruption into the court - yard ,  as he 
had expected ,  and he heard the gate clash again ,  and all 
was quiet .  

The nervousness and dread that were upon him inspired 
that vague uneasiness respecting the Bank ,  which a great 
change would naturally awaken ,  with such feelings roused .  
It was well guarded ,  and he got up to go among the trusty 
people who were watching it ,  when his door suddenly opened ,  
and two figures rushed in ,  at sight of which he fell hack in 
amazement .  

Lucie and her father  !  Lucie with her arms stretched out 
to him ,  and with that old look of earnestness so concentrated 
and intensified ,  that it seemed as though it had been stamped 
upon her face expressly to give force and power to it in this 
one passage of her life .  

 "  What is this ?  "  cried Mr .  Lorry ,  breathless and con -  
fused .   " What is the matter? Lucie !  Manette  !  What 
has happened ? What has brought you here ? What 
is it? "  

With the look fixed upon him ,  in her paleness and wild -  
ness ,  she panted out in his arms ,  imploringly ,   "  O my dear 
friend  !  My husband  !   "  

 "  Your husband ,  Lucie ?  "  

 " Charles .  "  

 "  What of Charles ?  "  

 " Here .  "  

 "  Here ,  in Paris ?  "  

 "  Has been here some days — three or four — I dont know 
how many — I cant collect my thoughts .  An errand of 
generosity brought him here unknown to us  ;  he was stopped 
at the barrier ,  and sent to prison .  "  

The old man uttered an irrepressible cry .  Almost at the 
same moment ,  the bell of the great gate rang again ,  and 
a loud noise of feet and voices came pouring into the 
court - yard .  

 " What is that noise? "  said the Doctor ,  turning towards 
the window .  

 " Dont look !  "  cried Mr .  Lorry .   " Dont look out !  
Manette ,  for your life ,  dont touch the blind  !   "  



TURNING THE GRINDSTONE 293 

The Doctor turned ,  with his hand upon the fastening of 
the window ,  and said ,  with a cool bold smile : 

 "  My dear friend ,  I have a charmed life in this city .  
I have been a Bastille prisoner .  There is no patriot in Paris 
—in Paris ? In France — who ,  knowing me to have been 
a prisoner in the Bastille ,  would touch me ,  except to over -  
whelm me with embraces ,  or cany me in triumph .  My old 
pain has given me a power that has brought us through the 
barrier ,  and gained us news of Charles there ,  and brought us 
here .  I knew it would be so  ;  I knew I could help Charles 
out of all danger ;  I told Lucie so .  — What is that noise? "  
His hand was again upon the window .  

 "  Dont look  !   "  cried Mr .  Lorry ,  absolutely desperate .  
 "  No ,  Lucie ,  my dear ,  nor you  !   "  He got his arm round 
her ,  and held her .   " Dont be so terrified ,  my love .  I 
solemnly swear to you that I know of no harm having 
happened to Charles  ;  that I had no suspicion even of his 
being in this fatal place .  What prison is he in ?  "  

 " La Force !  "  

 "  La Force  !  Lucie ,  my child ,  if ever you were brave and 
serviceable in your life — and you were always both — you 
will compose yourself now ,  to do exactly as I bid you  ;  for 
more depends upon it than you can think ,  or I can say .  
There is no help for you in any action on your part to - night  ;  
you cannot possibly stir out .  I say this ,  because what 
I must bid you to do for Charless sake ,  is the hardest thing 
to do of all .  You must instantly be obedient ,  still ,  and 
quiet .  You must let me put you in a room at the back 
here .  You must leave your father and me alone for two 
minutes ,  and as there are Life and Death in the world you 
must not delay .  "  

 "  I will be submissive to you .  I see in your face that you 
know I can do nothing else than this .  I know you are true .  "  

The old man kissed her ,  and hurried her into his room ,  
and turned the key  ;  then ,  came hurrying back to the 
Doctor ,  and opened the window and partly opened the blind ,  
and put his hand upon the Doctors arm ,  and looked out 
with him into the court - yard .  

Looked out upon a throng of men and Avomen : not 
enough in number ,  or near enough ,  to fill the court - yard : 
not more than forty or fifty in all .  The people in possession 
of the house had let them in at the gate ,  and they had 
rushed in to work at the grindstone  ;  it had evidently been 



294 A TALE OF TWO CITIES 

set up there for their purpose ,  as in a convenient und 
retired spot .  

But .  such awful workers ,  and such awful work  !  

The grindstone had a double handle ,  and ,  turning at it 
madly were two men ,  whose faces ,  as their long hair flapped 
back when the whirlings of the grindstone brought their 
faces up ,  were more horrible and cruel than the visages of 
the wildest savages in their most barbarous disguise .  False 
eyebrows and false moustaches were stuck upon them ,  and 
their hideous countenances were all bloody and sweaty ,  and 
all awry with howling ,  and all staring and glaring with 
beastly excitement and want of sleep .  As these ruffians 
turned and turned ,  their matted locks now flung forward 
over their eyes ,  now flung backward over their necks ,  some 
women held wine to their mouths that they might drink  ;  
and what with dropping blood ,  and what with dropping 
wine ,  and what with the stream of sparks struck out of the 
stone ,  all their wicked atmosphere seemed gore and fire .  
The eye could not detect one creature in the group free 
from the smear of blood .  Shouldering one another to get 
next at the sharpening - stone ,  were men stripped to the 
waist ,  with the stain all over their limbs and bodies  ;  men 
in all sorts of rags ,  with the stain upon those rags  ;  men 
devilishly set off with spoils of womens lace and silk and 
ribbon ,  with the stain dyeing those trifles through and 
through .  Hatchets ,  knives ,  bayonets ,  swords ,  all brought 
to be sharpened ,  were all red with it .  Some of the hacked 
swords were tied to the wrists of those who carried them ,  
with strips of linen and fragments of dress : ligatures various 
in kind ,  but all deep of the one colour .  And as the frantic 
wielders of these weapons snatched them from the stream 
of sparks and tore away into the streets ,  the same red hue 
was red in their frenzied eyes  ;  — eyes which any unbrutalised 
beholder would have given twenty years of life ,  to petrify 
with a well - directed gun .  

All this was seen in a moment ,  as the vision of a drowning 
man ,  or of any human creature at any very great pass ,  
could see a world if it were there .  They drew back from 
the window ,  and the Doctor looked for explanation in his 
friends ashy face .  

 They are ,  "  Mr .  Lorry whispered the words ,  glancing fear -  
fully round at the locked room ,  murdering the prisoners .  
If you are sure of what you say  ;  if you really have the 



THE BASTILLE PRISONER 295 

power you think you have — as I believe you have— make 
yourself known to these devils ,  and get taken to La Force .  
It may be too late ,  I dont know ,  but let it not be a minute 
later  !   "  

Doctor Manette pressed his hand ,  hastened bareheaded out 
of the room ,  and was in the court - yard when Mr .  Lorry 
regained the blind .  

His streaming white hair ,  his remarkable face ,  and the 
impetuous confidence of his manner ,  as he put the weapons 
aside like water ,  carried him in an instant to the heart of 
the concourse at the stone .  For a few moments there was 
a pause ,  and a hurry ,  and a murmur ,  and the unintelligible 
sound of his voice  ;  and then Mr .  Lorry saw him ,  surrounded 
by all ,  and in the midst of a line of twenty men long ,  all 
linked shoulder to shoulder ,  and hand to shoulder ,  hurried 
out with cries of —  "  Live the Bastille prisoner  !  Help for 
the Bastille prisoners kindred in La Force  !  Room for the 
Bastille prisoner in front there  !  Save the prisoner Evre -  
monde at La Force  !   "  and a thousand answering shouts .  

He closed the lattice again with a fluttering heart ,  closed 
the window and the curtain ,  hastened to Lucie ,  and told her 
that her father was assisted by the people ,  and gone in search 
of her husband .  He found her child and Miss Pross with 
her  ;  but ,  it never occurred to him to be surprised by their 
appearance until a long time afterwards ,  when he sat watch -  
ing them in such quiet as the night knew .  

Lucie had ,  by that time ,  fallen into a stupor on the floor 
at his feet ,  clinging to his hand .  Miss Pross had laid the 
child clown on his own bed ,  and her head had gradually 
fallen on the pillow beside her pretty charge .  O the long ,  
long night ,  with the moans of the poor wife  !  And O the 
long ,  long night ,  with no return of her father and no tidings  !  

Twice more in the darkness the bell at the great gate 
sounded ,  and the irruption was repeated ,  and the grindstone 
whirled and spluttered .   " What is it? "  cried Lucie ,  
affrighted .   " Hush !  The soldiers swords are sharpened 
there ,  "  said Mr .  Lorry .   " The place is national property 
now ,  and used as a kind of armoury ,  my love .  "  

Twice more in all  ;  but ,  the last spell of work was feeble 
and fitful .  Soon aftei - wards the day began to dawn ,  and he 
softly detached himself from the clasping hand ,  and cautiously 
looked out again .  A man ,  so besmeared that he might have 
been a sorely wounded soldier creeping back to consciousness 



296 A TALE OF TWO CITIES 

on a field of slain ,  was rising from the pavement by the side 
of the grindstone ,  and looking about him with a vacant air .  
►Shortly ,  this worn - out murderer descried in the imperfect 
light one of the carriages of Monseigneur ,  and ,  staggering to 
that gorgeous vehicle ,  climbed in at the door ,  and shut him -  
self up to take his rest on its dainty cushions .  

The great grindstone ,  Earth ,  had turned when Mr .  Lorry 
looked out again ,  and the sun was red on the court - yard .  
But ,  the lesser grindstone stood alone there in the calm 
morning air ,  with a red upon it that the sun had never 
given ,  and would never take away .  



CHAPTER III 

THE SHADOW 

One of the first considerations which arose in the business 
mind of Mr .  Lorry when business hours came round ,  was 
this :— that he had no right to imperil Tellsons by sheltering 
the wife of an emigrant prisoner under the Bank roof .  His 
own possessions ,  safety ,  life ,  he would have hazarded for 
Lucie and her child ,  without a moments demur  ;  but the 
great trust he held was not his own ,  and as to that business 
charge he was a strict man of business .  

At first ,  his mind reverted to Defarge ,  and he thought of 
finding out the wine - shop again and taking counsel with its 
master in reference to the safest dwelling - place in the dis -  
tracted state of the city .  But ,  the same consideration that 
suggested him ,  repudiated him  ;  he lived in the most violent 
Quarter ,  and doubtless was influential there ,  and deep in its 
dangerous workings .  

Noon coming ,  and the Doctor not returning ,  and every 
minutes delay tending to compromise Tellsons ,  Mr .  Lorry 
advised with Lucie .  She said that her father had spoken of 
hiring a lodging for a short term ,  in that Quarter ,  near the 
Banking - house .  As there was no business objection to this ,  
and as he foresaw that even if it were all well with Charles ,  
and he were to be released ,  he could not hope to leave the 
city ,  Mr .  Lorry went out in quest of such a lodging ,  and 
found a suitable one ,  high up in a removed by - street where 
the closed blinds in all the other windows of a high melan -  
choly square of buildings marked deserted homes .  

To this lodging he at once removed Lucie and her child ,  
and Miss Pross : giving them what comfort he could ,  and 
much more than he had himself .  He left Jerry with them ,  
as a figure to fill a doorway that would bear considerable 
knocking on the head ,  and returned to his own occupations .  
A disturbed and doleful mind he brought to bear upon them ,  
and slowly and heavily the day lagged on with him .  
I .  K 3 



298 A TALE OF TWO CITIES 

It wore itself out ,  and wore him out with it .  until the 
Bank closed .  He was again alone in his room of the 
previous night ,  considering what to do next ,  when he heard 
a foot upon the stair .  In a few moments ,  a man stood in 
his presence ,  who ,  with a keenly observant look at him ,  
addressed him by his name .  

 " Your servant .  "  said Mr .  Lorry .   " Do you know me? "  

He was a strongly made man with dark curling hair ,  
from forty - five to fifty years of age .  For answer he repeated ,  
without any change of emphasis ,  the words : 

 "  Do you know me ?  "  

 " I have seen you somewhere .  "  

 "  Perhaps at my wine - shop ?  "  

Much interested and agitated ,  Mr .  Lorry said :  "  You come 
from Doctor Manet te ?  "  

 " Yes .  I come from Doctor Manette .  "  

 "  And what says he ? What does he send me ?  "  

Defarge gave into his anxious hand ,  an open scrap of 
paper .  It bore the words in the Doctors writing: 

 "  Charles is safe ,  but I cannot safely leave this place yet .  
I have obtained the favour that the bearer has a short note 
from Charles to his wife .  Let the bearer see his wife .  "  

It was dated from La Force ,  within an hour .  

 " •Will you accompany me ,  "  said Mr .  Lorry ,  joyfully 
relieved after reading this note aloud ,   " to where his wife 
resides ?  "  

 " Yes ,  "  returned Defarge .  

Scarcely noticing as yet ,  in what a curiously reserved and 
mechanical way Defarge spoke ,  Mr .  Lorry put on his hat 
and they went down into the court  - yard .  There ,  they found 
two women  ;  one ,  knitting .  

 "  Madame Defarge ,  surely  !   "  said Mr .  Lorry ,  who had left 
her in exactly the same attitude some seventeen years ago .  

 " It is she ,  "  observed her husband .  

 " Does madame go with us? "  inquired Mr .  Lorry ,  seeing 
that she moved as they moved .  

 " Yes .  That she may be able to recognise the faces and 
know the persons .  It is for their safety .  "  

Beginning to be struck by Defarge s manner .  Mr .  Lorry 
looked dubiously at him ,  and led the way .  Both the women 
followed  ;  the second woman being The Vengeance .  

They passed through the intervening streets as quickly as 



MADAME DEFARGE EVER KNITTING 299 

they might ,  ascended the staircase of the new domicile ,  were 
admitted by Jerry ,  and found Lucie weeping ,  alone .  She 
was thrown into a transport by the tidings Mr .  Lorry gave 
her of her husband ,  and clasped the hand that delivered 
his note — little thinking what it had been doing near 
him in the night ,  and might ,  but for a chance ,  have done 
to him .  

 "  Dearest ,  — Take courage .  I am well ,  and your father 
has influence around me .  You cannot answer this .  Kiss 
our child for me .  "  

That was all the writing .  It was so much ,  however ,  to 
her who received it ,  that she turned from Defarge to his 
wife ,  and kissed one of the hands that knitted .  It was 
a passionate ,  loving ,  thankful ,  womanly action ,  but the hand 
made no response — dropped cold and heavy ,  and took to its 
knitting again .  

There was something in its touch that gave Lucie a check .  
She stopped in the act of putting the note in her bosom ,  
and ,  with her hands yet at her neck ,  looked terrified at 
Madame Defarge .  Madame Defarge met the lifted eyebrows 
and forehead with a cold ,  impassive stare .  

 "  My dear ,  "  said Mr .  Lorry ,  striking in to explain  ;   "  there 
are frequent risings in the streets  ;  and ,  although it is not 
likely they will ever trouble you ,  Madame Defarge wishes 
to see those whom she has the power to protect at such times ,  
to the end that she may know them — that she may identify 
them .  I believe ,  "  said Mr .  Lorry ,  rather halting in his 
reassuring words ,  as the stony manner of all the three 
impressed itself upon him more and more ,   "  I state the 
case ,  Citizen Defarge ?  "  

Defarge looked gloomily at his wife ,  and gave no other 
answer than a gruff sound of acquiescence .  

 "  You had better ,  Lucie ,  "  said Mr .  Lorry ,  doing all he 
could to propitiate ,  by tone and manner ,   "  have the dear 
child here ,  and our good Pross .  Our good Pross ,  Defarge ,  
is an English lady ,  and knows no French .  "  

The lady in question ,  whose rooted conviction that she 
was more than a match for any foreigner ,  was not to be 
shaken by distress and danger ,  appeared with folded arms ,  
and observed in English to The Vengeance ,  whom her e3 T es 
first encountered ,   " Well ,  I am sure .  Boldface  !  I hope you 
are pretty well  !   "  She also bestowed a British cough on 



300 A TALE OE TWO CITIES 

Madame Defarge  ;  but ,  neither of the two took much heed 
of her .  

 "  Is that his child ?  "  said Madame Defarge .  stopping in 
her work for the first time ,  and pointing her knitting - needle 
at little Lucie as if it were the finger of Fate .  

Yes ,  madams ,  "  answered Mr .  Lorry  ;   " this is our poor 
prisoners darling daughter ,  and only child .  "  

The shadow attendant on Madame Defarge and her party 
seemed to fall so threatening and dark on the child ,  that her 
mother instinctively kneeled on the ground beside her ,  and 
held her to her breast .  The shadow attendant on Madame 
Defarge and her party seemed then to fall ,  threatening and 
dark ,  on both the mother and the child .  

 " It is enough ,  my husband ,  "  said Madame Defarge .  
 " I have seen them .  We may go .  "  

But ,  the suppressed manner had enough of menace in 
it — not visible and presented ,  but indistinct and withheld— 
to alarm Lucie into saying ,  as she laid her appealing hand 
on Madame Defarges dress : 

• You will be good to my poor husband .  You will do 
him no harm .  You will help me to see him if you can? "  

 " Your husband is not my business here .  "  returned 
Madame Defarge ,  looking down at her with perfect com -  
posure .   "  It is the daughter of your father who is my 
business here .   "  

For my sake ,  then ,  be merciful to my husband .  For 
my childs sake  !  She will put her hands together and pray 
you to be merciful .  We are more afraid of you than of 
these others .  "  

Madame Defarge received it as a compliment ,  and looked 
at her husband .  Defarge ,  who had been uneasily biting his 
thumb - nail and looking at her ,  collected his face into a 
 . sterner expression .  

 " What is it that your husband says in that little letter?  "  
asked Madame Defarge .  with a lowering smile .  Influence  ;  
he says something touching influence? "  

 " That my father ,  "  said Lucie ,  hurriedly taking the paper 
from her breast ,  but with her alarmed eyes on her cjuestioner 
and not on it ,   " has much influence around him .  "  

 " Surely it will release him !  "  said Madame Defarge .  
•Let it do so .  "  

 " As a wife and mother ,  "  cried Lucie ,  most earnestly ,  
 "  I implore you to have pity on me and not to exercise any 



A DARK SHADOW 30T 

power that you possess ,  against my innocent husband ,  hut 
to use it in his behalf .  sister - woman ,  think of me .  As 
a wife and mother  !   "  

Madame Defarge looked ,  coldly as ever ,  at the suppliant ,  
and said ,  turning to her friend The Vengeance : 

 "  The wives and mothers we have been used to see ,  since 
we were as little as this child ,  and much less ,  have not been 
greatly considered ? We have known their husbands and 
fathers laid in prison and kept from them ,  often enough ? 
All our lives ,  we have seen our sister - women suffer ,  in 
themselves and in their children ,  poverty ,  nakedness ,  
hunger ,  thirst ,  sickness ,  misery ,  oppression and neglect of 
all kinds? "  

 "  We have seen nothing else ,  "  returned The Vengeance .  

 "  We have borne this a long time ,  "  said Madame Defarge ,  
turning her eyes again upon Lucie .   ;   Judge you  !  Is it 
likely that the trouble of one wife and mother would be 
much to us now ?  "  

She resumed her knitting and went out .  The Vengeance 
followed .  Defarge went last ,  and closed the door .  

■Courage ,  my dear Lucie ,  "  said Mr .  Lorry ,  as he raised 
her .   "  Courage ,  courage  !  So far all goes well with us — 
much ,  much better than it has of late gone with many poor 
souls .  Cheer up ,  and have a thankful heart .  "  

 "  I am not thankless ,  I hope ,  but that dreadful woman 
seems to throw a shadow on me and on all my hopes .  "  

 " Tut ,  tut !  "  said Mr .  Lorry ;  what is this despondency 
in the brave little breast ? A shadow indeed  !  No substance 
in it ,  Lucie .  "  

But the shadow of the manner of these Defarges was dark 
upon himself ,  for all that ,  and in his secret mind it troubled 
him greatly .  



CHAPTER IV 



CALM IN STORM 



Doctor Manette did not return until the morning of the 
fourth day of his absence .  So much of what had happened 
in that dreadful time as could he kept from the knowledge 
of Lucie was so well concealed from her ,  that not until long 
afterwards ,  when France and she were far apart ,  did she 
know that eleven hundred defenceless prisoners of both 
sexes and all ages had been killed by the populace  ;  that 
four days and nights had been darkened by this deed of 
horror  ;  and that the air around her had been tainted by 
the slain .  She only knew that there had been an attack 
upon the prisons ,  that all political prisoners had been in 
danger ,  and that some had been dragged out by the crowd 
and murdered .  

To Mr .  Lorry ,  the Doctor communicated under an injunc -  
tion of secrecy on which he had no need to dwell ,  that the 
crowd had taken him through a scene of carnage to the 
prison of La Force .  That ,  in the prison he had found a self -  
appointed Tribunal sitting ,  before which the prisoners were 
brought singly ,  and by which they were rapidly ordered to 
be put forth to be massacred ,  or to be released ,  or  ( in a few 
cases )  to be sent back to their cells .  That ,  presented by his 
conductors to this Tribunal ,  he had announced himself by 
name and profession as having been for eighteen years 
a secret and unaccused prisoner in the Bastille  ;  that ,  one of 
the body so sitting in judgment had risen and identified him ,  
and that this man was Defarge .  

That ,  hereupon he had ascertained ,  through the registers 
on the table ,  that his son - in - law was among the living 
prisoners ,  and had pleaded hard to the Tribunal — of whom 
some members were asleep and some awake ,  some dirty 
with murder and some clean ,  some sober and some not — 
for his life and liberty .  That ,  in the first frantic greetings 
lavished on himself as a notable sufferer under the over -  



THE DOCTORS CONFIDENCES 303 

thrown system ,  it had heen accorded to him to have Charles 
Darnay brought before the lawless Court ,  and examined .  
That ,  he seemed on the point of being at once released ,  
when the tide in his favour met with some unexplained 
check  ( not intelligible to the Doctor )  ,  which led to a few 
words of secret conference .  That ,  the man sitting as President 
had then informed Doctor Manette that the prisoner must 
remain in custody ,  but should ,  for his sake ,  be held inviolate 
in safe custody .  That ,  immediately ,  on a signal ,  the prisoner 
was removed to the interior of the prison again  ;  but ,  that he ,  
the Doctor ,  had then so strongly pleaded for permission to 
remain and assure himself that his son - in - law was ,  through 
no malice or mischance ,  delivered to the concourse whose 
murderous yells outside the gate had often drowned the 
proceedings ,  that he had obtained the permission ,  and had 
remained in that Hall of Blood until the danger was over .  

The sights he had seen there ,  with brief snatches of food 
and sleep by intervals ,  shall remain untold .  The mad joy 
over the prisoners who were saved ,  had astounded him 
scarcely less than the mad ferocity against those who were 
cut to pieces .  One prisoner there was ,  he said ,  who had 
been discharged into the street free ,  but at whom a mistaken 
savage had thrust a pike as he passed out .  Being besought 
to go to him and dress the wound ,  the Doctor had passed 
out at the same gate ,  and had found him in the arms of 
a company of Samaritans ,  who were seated on the bodies 
of their victims .  With an inconsistency as monstrous as 
anything in this awful nightmare ,  they had helped the 
healer ,  and tended the wounded man with the gentlest 
solicitude — had made a litter for him and escorted him 
carefully from the spot — had then caught up their weapons 
and plunged anew into a butchery so dreadful ,  that the 
Doctor had covered his eyes with his hands ,  and swooned 
away in the midst of it .  

As Mr .  Lorry received these confidences ,  and as he watched 
the face of his friend now sixty - two years of age ,  a misgiving 
arose within him that such dread experiences would revive 
the old danger .  But ,  he had never seen his friend in his 
present aspect : he had never at all known him in his present 
character .  For the first time the Doctor felt ,  now ,  that his 
suffering was strength and power .  For the first time he 
felt that in that sharp fire ,  he had slowly forged the iron 
which could break the prison door of his daughters husband ,  



304 A TALE OF TWO CITIES 

and deliver him .   "  It all tended to a good end ,  my friend  ;  
it was not mere waste and ruin .  As my beloved child was 
helpful in restoring me to myself ,  I will be helpful now in 
restoring the dearest part of herself to her  ;  by the aid of 
Heaven I will do it  !   "  Thus ,  Doctor Manette .  And when 
Jarvis Lorry saw the kindled eyes ,  the resolute face ,  the 
calm strong look and bearing of the man whose life always 
seemed to him to have been stopped ,  like a clock ,  for so 
many years ,  and then set going again with an energy which 
had lain dormant during the cessation of its usefulness ,  he 
believed .  

Greater things than the Doctor had at that time to con -  
tend with ,  would have yielded before his persevering purpose .  
While he kept himself in his place ,  as a physician ,  whose 
business was with all degrees of mankind ,  bond and free ,  
rich and poor ,  bad and good ,  he used his personal influence 
so wisely ,  that he was soon the inspecting physician of three 
prisons ,  and among them of La Force .  He could now assure 
Lucie that her husband was no longer confined alone ,  but 
was mixed with the general body of prisoners  ;  he saw her 
husband weekly ,  and brought sweet messages to her ,  straight 
from his lips  ;  sometimes her husband himself sent a letter 
to her  ( though never by the Doctors hand )  ,  but she was not 
permitted to write to him : for ,  among the many wild sus -  
picions of plots in the prisons ,  the wildest of all pointed at 
emigrants who were known to have made friends or per -  
manent connections abroad .  

This new life of the Doctors was an anxious life ,  no 
doubt  ;  still ,  the sagacious Mr .  Lorry saw that there was 
a new sustaining pride in it ,  Nothing unbecoming tinged 
the pride  ;  it was a natural and worthy one  ;  but he observed 
it as a curiosity .  The Doctor knew ,  that up to that time ,  
his imprisonment had been associated in the minds of his 
daughter and his friend ,  with his personal affliction ,  depriva -  
tion ,  and weakness .  Now that this was changed ,  and he 
knew himself to be invested through that old trial with 
forces to which they both looked for Charless ultimate 
safety and deliverance ,  he became so far exalted by the 
change ,  that he took the lead and direction ,  and required 
them as the weak ,  to trust to him as the strong .  The pre -  
ceding relative positions of himself and Lucie were reversed ,  
yet only as the liveliest gratitude and affection could reverse 
them ,  for he could have had no pride but in rendering some 



THE NEW EEA IN EULL RUSH 305 

service to her who had rendered so much to him .   "  All 
curious to see ,  "  thought Mr .  Lorry ,  in his amiably shrewd 
way ,   " but all natural and right  ;  so ,  take the lead ,  my dear 
friend ,  and keep it  ;  it couldnt be in better hands .  "  

But ,  though the Doctor tried hard ,  and never ceased trying ,  
to get Charles Darnay set at liberty ,  or at least to get him 
brought to trial ,  the public current of the time set too strong 
and fast for him .  The new era began  ;  the king was tried ,  
doomed ,  and beheaded  ;  the Republic of Liberty ,  Equality ,  
Fraternity ,  or Death ,  declared for victory or death against 
the world in arms  ;  the black flag waved night and day from 
the great towers of Notre Dame  ;  three hundred thousand 
men ,  summoned to rise against the tyrants of the earth ,  
rose from all the varying soils of France ,  as if the dragons 
teeth had been sown broadcast ,  and had yielded fruit equally 
on hill and plain ,  on rock ,  in gravel ,  and alluvial mud ,  
under the bright sky of the South and under the clouds of 
the North ,  in fell and forest ,  in the vineyards and the olive -  
grounds and among the cropped grass and the stubble of the 
corn ,  along the fruitful banks of the broad rivers ,  and in 
the sand of the sea - shore .  What private solicitude could 
rear itself against the deluge of the Year One of Liberty — 
the deluge rising from below ,  not falling from above ,  and 
with the windows of Heaven shut ,  not opened  !  

There was no pause ,  no pity ,  no peace ,  no interval of 
relenting rest ,  no measurement of time .  Though days and 
nights circled as regularly as when time was young ,  and the 
evening and morning were the first day ,  other count of time 
there was none .  Hold of it was lost in the raging fever of 
a nation ,  as it is in the fever of one patient .  Now ,  breaking 
the unnatural silence of a whole city ,  the executioner showed 
the people the head of the king — and now ,  it seemed almost 
in the same breath ,  the head of his fair wife which had had 
eight weary months of imprisoned widoAvhood and misery ,  
to turn it grey .  

And yet ,  observing the strange law of contradiction which 
obtains in all such cases ,  the time was long ,  while it flamed 
by so fast .  A revolutionary tribunal in the capital ,  and 
forty or fifty thousand revolutionary committees all over the 
land  ;  a law of the Suspected ,  which struck away all security 
for liberty or life ,  and delivered over any good and innocent 
person to any bad and guilty one  ;  prisons gorged with 
people who had committed no offence ,  and Could obtain no 



306 A TALE OF TWO CITIES 

hearing  ;  these things became the established order and 
nature of appointed things ,  and seemed to be ancient usage 
before they were many weeks old .  Above all ,  one hideous 
figure grew as familiar as if it had been before the general 
gaze from the foundations of the world — the figure of the 
sharp female called La Guillotine .  

It was the popular theme for jests  ;  it was the best cure 
for headache ,  it infallibly prevented the hair from turning 
grey ,  it imparted a peculiar delicacy to the complexion ,  it 
was the National Razor which shaved close : who kissed La 
Guillotine ,  looked through the little window and sneezed 
into the sack .  It was the sign of the regeneration of the 
human race .  It superseded the Cross .  Models of it were 
worn on breasts from which the Cross was discarded ,  and it 
was bowed down to and believed in where the Cross was 
denied .  

It sheared off heads so many ,  that it ,  and the ground it 
most polluted ,  were a rotten red .  It was taken to pieces ,  
like a toy - puzzle for a young Devil ,  and was put together 
again when the occasion wanted it .  It hushed the eloquent ,  
struck down the powerful ,  abolished the beautiful and good .  
Twenty - two friends of high public mark ,  twenty - one living 
and one dead ,  it had lopped the heads off ,  in one morning -  ,  
in as many minutes .  The name of the strong man of Old 
Scripture had descended to the chief functionary who worked 
it  ;  but ,  so armed ,  he was stronger than his namesake ,  and 
blinder ,  and tore away the gates of Gods own Temple 
every day .  

Among these terrors ,  and the brood belonging to them ,  
the Doctor walked with a steady head : confident in his 
power ,  cautiously persistent in his end ,  never doubting that 
he would save Lucies husband at last .  Yet the current of 
the time swept by ,  so strong and deep ,  and carried the time 
away so fiercely ,  that Charles had lain in prison one year 
and three months when the Doctor was thus steady and 
confident .  So much more wicked and distracted had the 
Revolution grown in that December month ,  that the rivers 
of the South were encumbered with the bodies of the 
violently drowned by night ,  and prisoners were shot in lines 
and squares under the southern wintry sun .  Still ,  the 
Doctor walked among the terrors with a steady head .  No 
man better known than ho ,  in Paris at that day  ;  no man 
in a stranger situation .  Silent ,  humane ,  indispensable in 



A MAN APART 307 

hospital and prison ,  using his art equally among assassins 
and victims ,  he was a man apart .  In the exercise of his 
skill ,  the appearance and the story of the Bastille Captive 
removed him from all other men .  He was not suspected or 
brought in question ,  any more than if he had indeed been 
recalled to life some eighteen years before ,  or were a Spirit 
moving among mortals .  



CHAPTER V 

THE WOOD - SAWYER 

One year and three months .  During all that time Lucie 
was never sure ,  from hour to hour ,  hut that the Guillotine 
would strike off her husbands head next day .  Every day .  
through the stony streets ,  the tumbrils now jolted heavily ,  
filled with Condemned .  Lovely girls  ;  bright women ,  brown -  
haired ,  black - haired ,  and grey  ;  youths  ;  stalwart men and 
old : gentle born and peasant born  ;  all red wine for La 
Guillotine ,  all daily brought into light from the dark cellars 
of the loathsome prisons ,  and carried to her through the 
street to slake her devouring thirst .  Liberty ,  equality ,  
fraternity ,  or death  ;  — the last ,  much the easiest to bestow ,  
Guillotine  !  

If the suddenness of her calamity ,  and the whirling wheels 
of the time ,  had stunned the Doctors daughter into awaiting 
the result in idle despair ,  it would but have been with her 
as it was with many .  But ,  from the hour when she had 
taken the white head to her fresh young bosom in the garret 
of Saint Antoine ,  she had been true to her duties .  She was 
truest to them in the season of trial ,  as all the quietly loyal 
and good will always be .  

As soon as they were established in their new residence ,  
and her father had entered on the routine of his avocations ,  
she arranged the little household as exactly as if her husband 
had been there .  Everything had its appointed place and 
its appointed time .  Little Lucie she taught ,  as regularly ,  as 
if they had all been united in their English home .  The 
slight devices with which she cheated herself into the show 
of a belief that they would soon be reunited — the little 
preparations for his speedy return ,  the setting aside of his 
chair and his books — these ,  and the solemn prayer at night 
for one dear prisoner especially ,  among the many unhappy 
souls in prison and the shadow of death — were almost the 
only outspoken reliefs of her heavy mind .  



THE PKISON WINDOW 309 

She did not greatly alter in appearance .  The plain dark 
dresses ,  akin to mourning dresses ,  which she and her child 
wore ,  were as neat and as well attended to as the brighter 
clothes of happy days .  She lost her colour ,  and the old and 
intent expression was a constant ,  not an occasional ,  thing  ;  
otherwise ,  she remained very pretty and comely .  Sometimes ,  
at night on kissing her father ,  she would burst into the grief 
she had repressed all day ,  and would say that her sole 
reliance ,  under Heaven ,  was on him .  He always resolutely 
answered :  "  Nothing can happen to him without my know -  
ledge ,  and I know that I can save him ,  Lucie .  

They had not made the round of their changed life many 
weeks ,  when her father said to her ,  on coming home one 
evening : 

 "  My dear ,  there is an upper window in the prison ,  to 
which Charles can sometimes gain access at three in the 
afternoon .  When he can get to it — which depends on many 
uncertainties and incidents — he might see you in the street ,  
he thinks ,  if you stood in a certain place that I can show 
you .  But you will not be able to see him ,  my poor child ,  
and even if you could ,  it would be unsafe for you to make a 
sign of recognition .  "  

  O show me the place ,  my father ,  and I will go there 
every day .  "  

From that time ,  in all weathers ,  she waited there two 
hours .  As the clock struck two ,  she was there ,  and at four 
she turned resignedly away .  When it was not too wet or 
inclement for her child to be with her ,  they went together  ;  
at other times she was alone  ;  but she never missed a single 
day .  

It was the dark and dirty corner of a small winding street .  
The hovel of a cutter of wood into lengths for burning ,  was 
the only house at that end  ;  all else was wall .  On the third 
day of her being there ,  he noticed her .  

 " Good day ,  citizeness .  "  

 " Good day ,  citizen .  "  

This mode of address was now prescribed by decree .  It 
had been established voluntarily some time ago ,  among the 
more thorough patriots  ;  but ,  was now law for everybody .  

 "  Walking here again ,  citizeness ?  "  

 "  You see me ,  citizen  !   "  

The wood - sawyer ,  who was a little man with a redundancy 
of gesture  ( he had once been a mender of roads )  ,  cast a glance 



310 A TALE OF TWO CITIES 

:it the prison ,  pointed at the prison ,  and putting his ten 
ringers before his face to represent bars ,  peeped through them 
jocosely .  

 " But its not my business ,  "  said he .  And went on sawing 
his wood .  

Next clay he was looking out for her ,  and accosted her the 
moment she appeared .  

 "  What ? Walking here again ,  citizeness ?  "  

 "  Yes ,  citizen .  "  

 " Ah !  A child too !  Your mother ,  is it not ,  my little 
citizeness ?  "  

 "  Do I say yes ,  mamma ?  "  whispered little Lucie ,  drawing 
close to her .  

 " Yes ,  dearest .  "  

 " Yes ,  citizen .  "  

 "  Ah  !  But its not my business .  My work is my business .  
See my saw  !  I call it my Little Guillotine .  La ,  la ,  la  ;  La ,  
la ,  la  !  And off his head comes  !   "  

The billet fell as he spoke ,  and he threw it into a basket .  

 "  I call myself the Samson of the firewood guillotine .  See 
here again  !  Loo ,  loo ,  loo  ;  Loo ,  loo ,  loo  !  And off her head 
comes  !  Now ,  a child .  Tickle ,  tickle  ;  Pickle ,  pickle  !  And 
off its head comes .  All the family  !   "  

Lucie shuddered as he threw two more billets into his 
basket ,  but it was impossible to be there while the wood -  
sawyer was at work ,  and not be in his sight .  Thenceforth ,  
to secure his good will ,  she always spoke to him first ,  and 
often gave him drink - money ,  which he readily received .  

He was an inquisitive fellow ,  and sometimes when she had 
quite forgotten him in gazing at the prison roof and grates ,  
and in lifting her heart up to her husband ,  she would come 
to herself to find him looking at her ,  with his knee on his 
bench and his saw stopped in its work .   "  But its not my 
business  !   "  he would generally say at those times ,  and would 
briskly fall to his sawing again .  

In all weathers ,  in the snow and frost of winter ,  in the 
bitter winds of spring ,  in the hot sunshine of summer ,  in 
the rains of autumn ,  and again in the snow and frost of 
winter ,  Lucie passed two hours of every day at this place  ;  
and every day on leaving it ,  she kissed the prison wall .  
Her husband saw her  ( so she learned from her father )  it 
might be once in live or six times: it might be twice or 
thrice running: it might be ,  not for a week or a fortnight 



THE FESTIVAL DAY 3 1 I 

together .  It was enough that he could and did see her when 
the chances served ,  and on that possibility she would have 
waited out the day ,  seven days a week .  

These occupations brought her round to the December 
month ,  wherein her father walked among the terrors with 
a steady head .  On a lightly - snowing afternoon she arrived 
at the usual corner .  It was a day of some wild rejoicing ,  
and a festival .  She had seen the houses ,  as she came along ,  
decorated with little pikes ,  and with little red caps stuck 
upon them  ;  also ,  with tricoloured ribbons  ;  also ,  with the 
standard inscription  ( tricoloured letters were the favourite )  .  
Eepublic One and Indivisible .  Liberty ,  Equality ,  Fraternity ,  
or Death  !  

The miserable shop of the wood - sawyer was so small ,  that 
its whole surface furnished very indifferent space for this 
legend .  He had got somebody to scrawl it up for him ,  how -  
ever ,  who had squeezed Death in with most inappropriate 
difficulty .  On his house - top ,  he displayed pike and cap ,  as 
a good citizen must ,  and in a window he had stationed his 
saw inscribed as his  " Little Sainte Guillotine "  — for the 
great sharp female was by that time popularly canonised .  
His shop was shut and he was not there ,  which was a relief 
to Lucie ,  and left her quite alone .  

But ,  he was not far off ,  for presently she heard a troubled 
movement and a shouting coming along ,  which filled her 
with fear .  A moment afterwards ,  and a throng of people 
came pouring round the corner by the prison wall ,  in the 
midst of whom was the wood - sawyer hand in hand with 
The Vengeance .  There could not be fewer than five 
hundred people ,  and they were dancing like five thousand 
demons .  There was no other music than their own singing .  
They danced to the popular Eevolution song ,  keeping a 
ferocious time that was like a gnashing of teeth in unison .  
Men and women danced together ,  women danced together ,  
men danced together ,  as hazard had brought them together .  
At first ,  they were a mere storm of coarse red caps and 
coarse woollen rags  ;  but ,  as they filled the place ,  and stopped 
to dance about Lucie ,  some ghastly apparition of a dance -  
figure gone raving mad arose among them .  They advanced ,  
retreated ,  struck at one anothers hands ,  clutched at one 
anothers heads ,  spun round alone ,  caught one another and 
spun round in pairs ,  until many of them dropped .  While 
those were down ,  the rest linked hand in hand ,  and all spun 



312 A TALE OF TWO CITIES 

round together : then the ring broke ,  and in separate rings 
of two and tour they turned and turned until they all stopped 
at once ,  began again ,  struck ,  clutched ,  and tore ,  and then 
reversed the spin ,  and all spun round another way .  Suddenly 
they stopped again ,  paused ,  struck out the time afresh ,  formed 
into lines the width of the public way ,  and ,  with their heads 
low down and their hands high up ,  swooped screaming off .  
No fight could have been half so terrible as this dance .  It 
was so emphatically a fallen sport — a something ,  once 
innocent ,  delivered over to all devilry — a healthy pastime 
changed into a means of angering the blood ,  bewildering 
the senses ,  and steeling the heart .  Such grace as was 
visible in it ,  made it the uglier ,  showing how warped and 
perverted all things good by nature were become .  The 
maidenly bosom bared to this ,  the pretty almost - childs head 
thus distracted ,  the delicate foot mincing in this slough of 
blood and dirt ,  were types of the disjointed time .  

This was the Carmagnole .  As it passed ,  leaving Lucie 
frightened and bewildered in the doorway of the wood -  
sawyers house ,  the feathery snow fell as quietly and lay as 
white and soft ,  as if it had never been .  

 "  O my father  !   "  for he stood before her when she lifted 
up the eyes she had momentarily darkened with her hand  ;  
 " such a cruel ,  bad sight .  "  

 "  I know ,  my dear ,  I know .  I have seen it many times .  
Dont be frightened  !  Not one of them would harm you .  "  

 "  I am not frightened for myself ,  my father .  But 
when I think of my husband ,  and the mercies of these 
people  "  

 " We will set him above their mercies very soon .  I left 
him climbing to the window ,  and I came to tell you .  There 
is no one here to see .  You may kiss your hand towards that 
highest shelving roof . * 

• I do so ,  father ,  and I send him my Soul with it  !   "  

 "  You cannot see him ,  my poor dear ?  "  

• No ,  father ,  "  said Lucie ,  yearning and weeping as she 
kissed her hand ,   " no .  "  

A footstep in the snow .  Madame Defarge .   "  I salute you .  
citizeness ,  "  from the Doctor .   " I salute you ,  citizen /  This 
in passing .  Nothing more .  Madazne Defarge gone ,  like 
a shadow over the white road .  

 "  Give me your aim .  my love .  Pass from here with an 
air of cheerfulness and courage ,  for his sake .  That was well 



SUMMONED FOR TO - MORKOW 313 

done  ;   "  they had left the spot  ;   "  it shall not he in vain .  
Charles is summoned for to - morrow .  "  

 "  For to - morrow  !   "  

 "  There is no time to lose .  I am well prepared ,  hut there 
are precautions to be taken ,  that could not be taken until he 
was actually summoned before the Tribunal .  He has not 
received the notice yet ,  but I know that he will presently be 
summoned for to - morrow ,  and removed to the Conciergerie  ;  
I have timely information .  You are not afraid ?  "  

She could scarcely answer ,   " I trust in you .  "  

 " Do so ,  implicitly .  Your suspense is nearly ended ,  my 
darling  ;  he shall be restored to you within a few hours  ;  
I have encompassed him with every protection .  I must 
see Lorry .  "  

He stopped .  There was a heavy lumbering of wheels 
within hearing .  They both knew too well what it meant .  
One .  Two .  Three .  Three tumbrils faring away with their 
dread loads over the hushing snow .  

 "  I must see Lorry ,  "  the Doctor repeated ,  turning her 
another way .  

The staunch old gentleman was still in his trust  ;  had 
never left it .  He and his books were in frequent requisition 
as to property confiscated and made national .  What he 
could save for the owners ,  he saved .  No better man living 
to hold fast by what Tellsons had in keeping ,  and to hold 
his peace .  

A murky red and yellow sky ,  and a rising mist from the 
Seine ,  denoted the approach of darkness .  It was almost dark 
when they arrived at the Bank .  The stately residence of 
Monseigneur was altogether blighted and deserted .  Above 
a heap of dust and ashes in the court ,  ran the letters : 
National Property .  Republic One and Indivisible .  Liberty ,  
Equality ,  Fraternity ,  or Death  !  

Who could that be with Mr .  Lorry — the owner of the 
riding - coat upon the chair — who must not be seen ? From 
whom newly arrived ,  did he come out ,  agitated and surprised ,  
to take his favourite in his arms ? To whom did he appear 
to repeat her faltering words ,  when ,  raising his voice and 
turning his head towards the door of the room from which 
he had issued ,  he said :  "  Removed to the Conciergerie ,  and 
summoned for to - morrow ?  "  



CHAPTER VI 

TRIUMPH 

The dread Tribunal of five Judges ,  Public Prosecutor ,  and 
determined Jury ,  sat every day .  Their lists went forth 
every evening ,  and were read out by the gaolers of the various 
prisons to their prisoners .  The standard gaoler - joke was ,  
 "  Come out and listen to the Evening Paper ,  you inside 
there  !   "  

 "  Charles Evremonde ,  called Darnay  !   "  

So at last began the Evening Paper at La Force .  

When a name was called ,  its owner stepped apart into 
a spot reserved for those who were announced as being thus 
fatally recorded .  Charles Evremonde ,  called Darnay ,  had 
reason to knuw the usage  ;  he had seen hundreds pass 
away so .  

His bloated gaoler ,  who wore spectacles to read with ,  
glanced over them to assure himself that he had taken his 
place ,  and went through the list ,  making a similar short 
pause at each name .  There were twenty - three names ,  but 
only twenty were responded to  ;  for one of the prisoners so 
summoned had died in gaol and been forgotten ,  and two 
had already been guillotined and forgotten .  The list was 
read ,  in the vaulted chamber where Darnay had seen the 
associated prisoners on the night of his arrival .  Every one 
of those had perished in the massacre  ;  every human creature 
he had since cared for and parted with ,  had died on the 
scaffold .  

There were hurried words of farewell and kindness ,  but the 
parting was soon over .  It was the incident of every day ,  and 
the society of La Force were engaged in the preparation of 
some games of forfeits and a little concert ,  for that evening .  
They crowded to the grates and shed tears there  ;  but ,  twenty 
places in the projected entertainments had to be refilled ,  and 
the time was ,  at best ,  short to the lock - up hour ,  when the 



& 



THE EMIGRANT AT THE BAR 315 

common rooms and corridors would be delivered over to the 
great dogs who kept watch there through the night .  The 
prisoners were far from insensible or unfeeling  ;  their ways 
arose out of the condition of the time .  Similarly ,  though 
with a subtle difference ,  a species of fervour or intoxication ,  
known ,  without doubt ,  to have led some persons to brave the 
guillotine unnecessarily ,  and to die by it ,  was not mere 
boastfulness ,  but a wild infection of the wildly shaken public 
mind .  In seasons of pestilence ,  some of us will have a secret 
attraction to the disease — a terrible passing inclination to 
die of it .  And all of us have like wonders hidden in our 
breasts ,  only needing circumstances to evoke them .  

The passage to the Conciergerie was short and dark : the 
night in its vermin - haunted cells was long and cold .  Next 
day ,  fifteen prisoners were put to the bar before Charles 
Darnays name was called .  All the fifteen were condemned ,  
and the trials of the whole occupied an hour and a half .  

 " Charles Evremonde ,  called Darnay ,  "  was at length 
arraigned .  

His judges sat upon the Bench in feathered hats  ;  but the 
rough red cap and tricoloured cockade was the head - dress 
otherwise prevailing .  Looking at the Jury and the turbulent 
audience ,  he might have thought that the usual order of 
things was reversed ,  and that the felons were trying the 
honest men .  The lowest ,  cruelest ,  and worst populace of 
a city ,  never without its quantity of low ,  cruel ,  and bad ,  
were the directing spirits of the scene : noisily commenting ,  
applauding ,  disapproving ,  anticipating ,  and precipitating the 
result ,  without a check .  Of the men ,  the greater part were 
armed in various ways  ;  of the women ,  some wore knives ,  
some daggers ,  some ate and drank as they looked on ,  many 
knitted .  Among these last ,  was one ,  with a spare piece of 
knitting under her arm as she worked .  She was in a front 
row ,  by the side of a man whom he had never seen since his 
arrival at the Barrier ,  but whom he directly remembered as 
Defarge .  He noticed that she once or twice whispered in 
his ear ,  and that she seemed to be his wife  ;  but ,  what he 
most noticed in the two figures was ,  that although they were 
posted as close to himself as they could be ,  they never looked 
towards him .  They seemed to be waiting for something 
with a dogged determination ,  and they looked at the Jury ,  
but at nothing else .  Under the President sat Doctor 
Manefcte ,  in his usual quiet dress .  As well as the prisoner 



31 6 A TALE OF TWO CITIES 

could see ,  he and Mr .  Lorry were the only men there ,  un -  
connected with the Tribunal ,  who wore their usual clothes ,  
and had not assumed the coarse garb of the Carmagnole ,  

Charles Evremonde ,  called Darnay ,  was accused by the 
public prosecutor as an emigrant ,  whose life was forfeit to 
the Republic ,  under the decree which banished all emigrants 
on pain of Death .  It was nothing that the decree bore date 
since his return to France .  There he was ,  and there was 
the decree  ;  he had been taken in France ,  and his head was 
demanded .  

 "  Take off his head  !   "  cried the audience .   "  An enemy to 
the Republic  !   "  

The President rang his bell to silence those cries ,  and asked 
the prisoner whether it was not true that he had lived many 
years in England ? 

Undoubtedly it was .  

Was he not an emigrant then? What did he call him -  
self? 

Not an emigrant ,  he hoped ,  within the sense and spirit of 
the law .  

Why not ? the President desired to know .  

Because he had voluntarily relinquished a title that was 
distasteful to him ,  and a station that was distasteful to him ,  
and had left his country — he submitted before the word 
emigrant in the present acceptation by the Tribunal was in 
use — to live by his own industry in England ,  rather than on 
the industry of the overladen people of France .  

What proof had he of this ? 

He handed in the names of two witnesses : Theophile 
Gabelle ,  and Alexandre Manette .  

But he had married in England ? the President reminded 
him .  

True ,  but not an English woman .  

A citizeness of France ? 

Yes .  By birth .  

Her name and family ? 

 "  Lucie Manette ,  only daughter of Doctor Manette .  the 
good physician who sits there .  "  

This answer had a happy effect upon the audience .  Cries 
in exaltation of the well - known good physician rent the 
hall .  So capriciously were the people moved ,  that tears 
immediately rolled down several ferocious countenances 
which had been glaring at the prisoner a moment before ,  as 



THE TWO WITNESSES 3T7 

if with impatience to pluck him out into the streets and kill 
him .  

On these few steps of his dangerous way ,  Charles Darnay 
had set his foot according to Doctor Manettes reiterated 
instructions .  The same cautious counsel directed every step 
that lay before him ,  and had prepared every inch of his 
road .  

The President asked ,  why had he returned to France when 
he did ,  and not sooner ? 

He had not returned sooner ,  he replied ,  simply because 
he had no means of living in France ,  save those he had 
resigned  ;  whereas ,  in England ,  he lived by giving in -  
struction in the French language and literature .  He had 
returned when he did ,  on the pressing and written entreaty 
of a French citizen ,  who represented that his life was en -  
dangered by his absence .  He had come back ,  to save 
a citizens life ,  and to bear his testimony ,  at whatever 
personal hazard ,  to the truth .  Was that criminal in the 
eyes of the Republic ? 

The populace cried enthusiastically ,   "  No  !    .  and the 
President rang his bell to quiet them .  Which it did not ,  
for they continued to cry  "  No  !   "  until they left off ,  of their 
own will .  

The President required the name of that citizen? The 
accused explained that the citizen was his first witness .  He 
also referred with confidence to the citizens letter ,  which 
had been taken from him at the Barrier ,  but which he did 
not doubt would be found among the papers then before the 
President .  

The Doctor had taken care that it should be there — had 
assured him that it would be there — and at this stage of the 
proceedings it was produced and read .  Citizen Gabelle was 
called to confirm it ,  and did so .  Citizen Gabelle hinted ,  
with infinite delicacy and politeness ,  that in the pressure of 
business imposed on the Tribunal by the multitude of enemies 
of the Republic with which it had to deal ,  he had been 
slightly overlooked in his prison of the Abbaye — in fact ,  had 
rather passed out of the Tribunals patriotic remembrance— 
until three days ago  ;  when he had been summoned before 
it ,  and had been set at liberty on the Julys declaring them -  
selves satisfied that the accusation against him was answered ,  
as to himself ,  by the surrender of the citizen Evremonde .  
called Darnav .  



318 A TALE OF TWO CITIES 

Doctor Manette was next questioned .  His high personal 
popularity ,  and the clearness of his answers ,  made a great 
impression  ;  but ,  as he proceeded ,  as he showed that the 
Accused was his first friend on his release from his long im -  
prisonment : that ,  the accused had remained in England ,  
always faithful and devoted to his daughter and himself in 
their exile  ;  that ,  so far from being in favour with the 
Aristocrat government there ,  he had actually been tried for 
his life by it ,  as the foe of England and friend of the United 
States — as he brought these circumstances into view ,  with 
the greatest discretion and with the straightforward force of 
truth and earnestness ,  the Jury and the populace became 
one .  At last ,  when he appealed by name to Monsieur 
Lorry ,  an English gentleman then and there present ,  who ,  
like himself ,  had been a witness on that English trial and 
could corroborate his account of it ,  the Jury declared that 
they had heard enough ,  and that they were ready with their 
votes if the President were content to receive them .  

At every vote  ( the Jurymen voted aloud and individually )  ,  
the populace set up a shout of applause .  All the voices were 
in the prisoners favour ,  and the President declared him free .  

Then ,  began one of those extraordinary scenes with which 
the populace sometimes gratified their fickleness ,  or their 
better impulses towards generosity and mercy ,  or which they 
regarded as some set - off against their swollen account of cruel 
rage .  No man can decide now to which of these motives 
such extraordinary scenes were referable  ;  it is probable ,  to 
a blending of all the three ,  with the second predominating .  
No sooner was the acquittal pronounced ,  than tears were 
shed as freely as blood at another time ,  and such fraternal 
embraces were bestowed upon the prisoner by as many of 
both sexes as could rush at him ,  that after his long and 
unwholesome confinement he was in danger of fainting 
from exhaustion  ;  none the less because he knew very well ,  
that the very same people ,  carried by another current ,  would 
have rushed at him with the very same intensity ,  to rend 
him to pieces and strew him over the streets .  

His removal ,  to make way for other accused persons who 
were to be tried ,  rescued him from these caresses for the 
moment .  Five were to be tried together ,  next ,  as enemies 
of the Republic ,  forasmuch as they had not assisted it bj r 
woi*d or deed .  So quick was the Tribunal to compensate 
itself and the nation for a chance lost ,  that these five came 



THE EMIGRANT RELEASED 319 

down to him befoi*e he left the place ,  condemned to die 
within twenty - four hours .  The first of them told him so ,  
with the customary prison sign of Death — a raised finger — 
and they all added in words ,   "  Long live the Eepublic  !   "  

The five had had ,  it is true ,  no audience to lengthen their 
proceedings ,  for when he and Doctor Manette emerged from 
the gate ,  there was a great crowd about it ,  in which there 
seemed to be every face he had seen in Court — except two .  
for which lie looked in vain .  On his coming out ,  the con -  
course made at him anew ,  weeping ,  embracing ,  and shouting ,  
all by turns and all together ,  until the very tide of the river 
on the bank of which the mad scene was acted ,  seemed to 
run mad ,  like the people on the shore .  

They put him into a great chair they had among them ,  
and which they had taken either out of the Court itself ,  or 
one of its rooms or passages .  Over the chair they had thrown 
a red flag ,  and to the back of it they had bound a pike with 
a red cap on its top .  In this car of triumph ,  not even the 
Doctors entreaties could prevent his being carried to his 
home on mens shoulders ,  with a confused sea of red caps 
heaving about him ,  and casting up to sight from the stormy 
deep such wrecks of faces ,  that he more than once mis -  
doubted his mind being in confusion ,  and that he was in the 
tumbril on his way to the Guillotine .  

In wild dreamlike procession ,  embiacing whom they met 
and pointing him out ,  they carried him on .  Keddening the 
snowy streets with the prevailing Eepublican colour ,  in 
winding and tramping through them ,  as they had reddened 
them below the snow with a deeper dye .  they carried him 
thus into the court - yard of the building where he lived .  Her 
father had gone on before ,  to prepare her ,  and when her 
husband stood upon his feet ,  she dropped insensible in his 
arms .  

As he held her to his heart and turned her beautiful head 
between his face and the brawling crowd ,  so that his tears 
and her lips might come together unseen ,  a few of the people 
fell to dancing .  Instantly ,  all the rest fell to dancing ,  and 
the court - yard overflowed with the Carmagnole .  Then ,  they 
elevated into the vacant chair a young woman from the 
crowd to be carried as the Goddess of Liberty ,  and then 
swelling and overflowing out into the adjacent streets ,  and 
along the rivers bank ,  and over the bridge ,  the Carmagnole 
absorbed them every one and whirled them away .  



320 A TALE OF TWO CITIES 

After grasping the Doctors hand ,  as he stood victorious 
and proud before him  ;  after grasping the hand of Mr .  
Lorry ,  who came panting in breathless from his struggle 
against the waterspout of the Carmagnole  ;  after kissing 
little Lucie ,  who was lifted up to clasp her arms round his 
neck  ;  and after embracing the ever zealous and faithful 
Pross who lifted her  ;  he took his wife in his arms ,  and 
carried her up to their rooms .  

 "  Lucie  !  My own  !  I am safe .  "  

 " 0 dearest Charles ,  let me thank God for this on my 
knees as I have prayed to Him .  "  

They all reverently bowed their heads and hearts .  When 
she was again in his arms ,  he said to her : 

 "  And now speak to your father ,  dearest .  No other man 
in all this France could have done what he has done for 
me .  "  

She laid her head upon her fathers breast ,  as she had laid 
his poor head on her own breast ,  long ,  long ago .  He was 
happy in the return he had made her ,  he was recompensed 
for his suffering ,  he was proud of his strength .   "  You must 
not be weak ,  my darling ,  "  he remonstrated  ;   " dont tremble 
so .  I have saved him .  "  



CHAPTER VII 

A KNOCK AT THE DOOR 

 I have saved him .  "  It was not another of the dreams in 
which he had often come back  ;  he was really here .  And 
yet his wife trembled ,  and a vague but heavy fear was 
upon her .  

All the air around was so thick and dark ,  the people were 
so passionately revengeful and fitful ,  the innocent were so 
constantly put to death on vague suspicion and black malice ,  
it was so impossible to forget that many as blameless as her 
husband and as dear to others as he was to her ,  every day 
shared the fate from which he had been clutched ,  that her 
heart could not be as lightened of its load as she felt it 
ought to be .  The shadows of the wintry afternoon were 
beginning to fall ,  and even now the dreadful carts were 
rolling through the streets .  Her mind pursued them ,  
looking for him among the Condemned  ;  and then she 
clung closer to his real presence and trembled more .  

Her father ,  cheering her ,  showed a compassionate superi -  
ority to this womans weakness ,  which was wonderful to 
see .  No garret ,  no shoemaking ,  no One Hundred and Five ,  
North Tower ,  now  !  He had accomplished the task he had 
set himself ,  his promise was redeemed ,  he had saved Charles .  
Let them all lean upon him .  

Their housekeeping was of a very frugal kind : not only 
because that was the safest way of life ,  involving the least 
offence to the people ,  but because they were not rich ,  and 
Charles ,  throughout his imprisonment ,  had had to pay 
heavily for his bad food ,  and for his guard ,  and towards the 
living of the poorer prisoners .  Partly on this account ,  and 
partly to avoid a domestic spy ,  they kept no servant  ;  the 
citizen and citizeness who acted as porters at the court - yard 
gate ,  rendered them occasional service  ;  and Jerry  ( almost 
wholly transferred to them by Mr .  Lorry )  had become their 
daily retainer ,  and had his bed there every night .  

It was an ordinance of the Republic One and Indivisible 

I .  L 



322 A TALE OF TWO CITIES 

of Liberty ,  Equality ,  Fraternity ,  or Death ,  that on the door 
or doorpost of every house ,  the name of every inmate must 
be legibly inscribed in letters of a certain size ,  at a certain 
convenient height from the ground .  Mr .  Jerry Crunchers 
name ,  therefore ,  duly embellished the doorpost down below  ;  
and ,  as the afternoon shadows deepened ,  the owner of that 
name himself appeared ,  from overlooking a painter whom 
Doctor Manette had employed to add to the list the name 
of Charles Evremonde ,  called Darnay .  

In the universal fear and distrust that darkened the time ,  
all the usual harmless ways of life were changed .  In the 
Doctors little household ,  as in very many others ,  the 
articles of daily consumption that were wanted were pur -  
chased every evening ,  in small quantities and at various 
small shops .  To avoid attracting notice ,  and to give as 
little occasion as possible for talk and envy ,  was the general 
desire .  

For some months past .  Miss Pross and Mr .  Cruncher had 
discharged the office of purveyors  ;  the former carrying the 
money  ;  the latter ,  the basket .  Every afternoon at about 
the time when the public lamps were lighted ,  they fared 
forth on this duty ,  and made and brought home such pur -  
chases as were needful .  Although Miss Pross .  through her 
long association with a French family ,  might have known 
as much of their language as of her own .  if she had had 
a mind ,  she had no mind in that direction  ;  consequently 
she knew no more of that  "  nonsense  "   ( as she was pleased 
to call it )  than Mr .  Cruncher did .  So her manner of 
marketing was to plump a noun - substantive at the head 
of a shopkeeper without any introduction in the nature of 
an article ,  and ,  if it happened not to be the name of the 
thing she wanted ,  to look round for that thing ,  lay hold 
of it ,  and hold on by it until the bargain was concluded .  
She always made a bargain for it ,  by holding up .  as a 
statement of its just price ,  one finger less than the merchant 
held up ,  whatever his number might be .  

Now ,  Mr .  Cruncher .  "  said Miss Pross .  whose eyes were 
red with felicity  ;   " if you are Ieady ,  I am .  "  

Jerry hoarsely professed himself at Miss Prosss service .  
He had worn all his rust off long ago ,  but nothing would 
file his spiky head down .  

 " Theres all manner of things wanted ,  "  said Miss Pross .  
 " and we shall have a precious time of it .  We want wine ,  



MISS PROSS AND MR .  CRUNCHER 323 

among the rest .  Nice toasts these Redheads will he drinking ,  
wherever we buy it .  "  

It will be much the same to your knowledge ,  miss ,  
I should think .  "  retorted Jerry ,   " whether they drink your 
health or the Old Uns .  "  

• Whos he ?  "  said Miss Pross .  

Mr .  Cruncher ,  with some diffidence ,  explained himself as 
meaning  " Old Nicks .  "  

 " Ha !  "  said Miss Pross ,   " it doesnt need an interpreter 
to explain the meaning of these creatures .  They have but 
one ,  and its Midnight Murder ,  and Mischief .  "  

 "  Hush ,  dear  !  Pray ,  pray ,  be cautious  !   "  cried Lucie .  

 " Yes ,  yes ,  yes ,  Ill be cautious ,  "  said Miss Pross ;   " but 
I may say among ourselves ,  that I do hope there will be no 
oniony and tobaccoey smotherings in the form of embracings 
all round ,  going on in the streets .  Now ,  Ladybird ,  never 
you stir from that fire till I come back  !  Take care of the 
dear husband you have recovered ,  and dont move your 
pretty head from his shoulder as you have it now .  till you 
see me again !  May I ask a question ,  Doctor Manette ,  
before I go ?  "  

 " I think you may take that liberty ,  "  the Doctor answered ,  
smiling .  

 "  For gracious sake ,  dont talk about Liberty  ;  we have 
quite enough of that ,  "  said Miss Pross .  

 "  Hush ,  dear  !  Again ?  "  Lucie remonstrated .  

 "  Well ,  my sweet ,  "  said Miss Pross ,  nodding her head 
emphatically .   "  the short and the long of it is ,  that I am 
a subject of His Most Gracious Majesty King George the 
Third  ;   "  Miss Pross curtseyed at the name  ;   "  and as such ,  
my maxim is .  Confound their politics .  Frustrate their knavish 
tricks ,  On him our hopes we fix ,  God save the King  !   "  

Mr .  Cruncher ,  in an access of loyalty ,  growlingly repeated 
the words after Miss Pross ,  like somebody at church .  

 "  I am glad you have so much of the Englishman in you .  
though I wish you had never taken that cold in your voice ,  "  
said Miss Pross ,  approvingly .   "  But the question .  Doctor 
Manette .  Is there  "  — it was the good creatures way to 
affect to make light of anything that was a great anxiety 
with them all ,  and to come at it in this chance manner— 
 " is there any prospect yet ,  of our getting out of this place? "  

 " I fear not yet .  It would lie dangerous for Charles yet .  "  

 " Heigh - ho - hum  !   "  said Miss Pross ,  cheerfully repressing 



324 A TALE OF TWO CITIES 

a sigh as she glanced at her darlings golden hair in the 
light of the fire ,   "  then we must have patience and wait : 
thats all .  We must hold up our heads and fight low .  as 
my brother Solomon used to say .  Now ,  Mr .  Cruncher  !  — 
Dont you move ,  Ladybird  !   "  

They went out ,  leaving Lucie ,  and her husband ,  her father ,  
and the child ,  by a bright fire .  Mr .  Lorry was expected 
back presently from the Banking House .  Miss Pross had 
lighted the lamp ,  but had put it aside in a corner ,  that 
they might enjoy the fire - light undisturbed .  Little Lucie 
sat by her grandfather with her hands clasped through his 
arm : and he ,  in a tone not rising much above a whisper ,  
began to tell her a story of a great and powerful Fairy who 
had opened a prison - wall and let out a captive who had once 
done the Fairy a service .  All was subdued and quiet ,  and 
Lucie was more at ease than she had been .  

 "  What is that ?  "  she cried ,  all at once .  

 "  My dear  !   "  said her father ,  stopping in his story ,  and 
laying his hand on hers ,   "  command yourself .  What a dis -  
ordered state you are in  !  The least thing — nothing — startles 
you  !  You ,  your fathers daughter  !   "  

 b I thought ,  my father ,  "  said Lucie ,  excusing herself ,  with 
a pale face and in a faltering voice .   "  that I heard strange 
feet upon the stairs .  "  

 " My love ,  the staircase is as still as Death .  "  

As he said the word ,  a blow was struck upon the door .  

 "  Oh father ,  father .  What can this be  !  Hide Charles .  
Save him  !   "  

 " My child ,  "  said the Doctor ,  rising ,  and laying his hand 
upon her shoulder ,   "  I have saved him .  What weakness is 
this ,  my dear  !  Let me go to the door .  "  

He took the lamp in his hand ,  crossed the two intervening 
outer rooms ,  and opened it .  A rude clattering of feet over 
the floor ,  and four rough men in red caps ,  armed with sabres 
and pistols ,  entered the room .  

 " The Citizen Evremonde .  called Darnay .  "  said the first .  

 "  Who seeks him ?  "  answered Darnay .  

 "  I seek him .  We seek him .  I know you ,  Evremonde  ;  
I saw you before the Tribunal to - day .  You are again the 
prisoner of the Republic .  "  

The four surrounded him .  where he stood with his wife 
and child clinging to him .  

 " Tell me how and why am I again a prisoner? "  



THE EMIGRANT RETAKEN 327 

 "  It is enough that you return straight to the Concier -  
gerie ,  and will know to - morrow .  You are summoned for 
to - morrow .  "  

Dr .  Manette ,  whom this visitation had so turned into 
stone ,  that he stood with the lamp in his hand ,  as if he 
were a statue made to hold it ,  moved after these words 
were spoken ,  put the lamp down ,  and confronting the 
speaker ,  and taking him ,  not ungently ,  by the loose front 
of his red woollen shirt ,  said : 

You know him ,  you have said .  Do you know me? "  

 " Yes ,  I know you ,  Citizen Doctor .  "  

We all know you ,  Citizen Doctor ,  said the other three .  

He looked abstractedly from one to another ,  and said ,  in 
a lower voice ,  after a pause : 

 "  Will you answer his question to me then ? How does 
this happen ?  "  

Citizen Doctor ,  "  said the first ,  reluctantly ,   " he has been 
denounced to the Section of Saint Antoine .  This citizen ,  "  
pointing out the second who had entered ,   " is from Saint 
Antoine .  "  

The citizen here indicated nodded his head ,  and added : 

 "  He is accused bv Saint Antoine .  "  

 "  Of what ?  "  asked the Doctor .  

 "  Citizen Doctor ,  "  said the first ,  with his former reluctance ,  
 "  ask no more .  If the Republic demands sacrifices from you ,  
without doubt you as a good patriot will be happy to make 
them .  The Republic goes before all .  The People is supreme .  
Evremonde ,  we are pressed .  "  

 " One word ,  "  the Doctor entreated .   " Will you tell me 
who denounced him ?  "  

 "  It is against rule ,  "  answered the first  ;   but you can ask 
Him of Saint Antoine here .  "  

The Doctor turned his eyes upon that man .  Who moved 
uneasily on his feet ,  rubbed his beard a little ,  and at length 
said : 

 "  Well  !  Truly it is against rule .  But he is denounced — 
and gravely — by the Citizen and Citizeness Defarge .  And 
by one other .  "  
 " What other? "  

 "  Do you ask ,  Citizen Doctor ?  "  

 " Yes .  "  

 " Then ,  "  said he of Saint Antoine ,  with a strange look ,  
• you will be answered to morrow .  Now ,  I am dumb  !   "  



CHAPTER VIII 

A HAND AT CARDS 

Happily unconscious of the new calamity at home ,  Miss Pross 
threaded her way along the narrow streets and crossed the 
river by the bridge of the Pont - Neuf ,  reckoning in her mind 
the number of indispensable purchases she had to make .  
Mr .  Cruncher ,  with the basket ,  walked at her side .  They 
both looked to the right and to the left into most of the 
shops they passed ,  had a wary eye for all gregarious 
assemblages of people ,  and turned out of their road to avoid 
any very excited group of talkers .  It was a raw evening ,  
and the misty river ,  blurred to the eye with blazing lights 
and to the ear with harsh noises ,  showed where the barges 
were stationed in which the smiths worked ,  making guns for 
the Army of the Republic .  Woe to the man who played 
tricks with that Army ,  or got undeserved promotion in it  !  
Better for him that his beard had never grown ,  for the 
National Razor shaved him close .  

Having purchased a few small articles of grocery ,  and a 
measure of oil for the lamp .  Miss Pross bethought herself of 
the wine they wanted .  After peeping into several wine -  
shops ,  she stopped at the sign of The Good Republican 
Brutus of Antiquity ,  not far from the National Palace ,  once 
 ( and twice )  the Tuileries ,  where the aspect of things rather 
took her fancy .  It had a quieter look than any other place 
of the same description they had passed ,  and ,  though red 
with patriotic caps ,  was not so red as the rest .  Sounding 
Mr .  Cruncher ,  and finding him of her opinion .  Miss Pross 
resorted to The Good Republican Brutus of Antiquity ,  
attended by her cavalier .  

Slightly observant of the smoky lights  ;  of the people ,  
pipe in mouth ,  playing with limp cards and yellow dominoes  ;  
of the one bare - breasted ,  bare - armed ,  soot - begrimed work -  
man reading a journal aloud ,  and of the others listening to 
him  ;  of the weapons worn ,  or laid aside to be resumed  ;  of 



*M2Sl 




O 



O 

o 
o 
w 
« 

es 

o 

c 

H 

w 



MISS PROSS MAKES A DISCOVERY "  33 1 

the two or three customers fallen forward asleep ,  who in the 
popular high - shouldered shaggy hlack spencer looked ,  in 
that attitude ,  like slumbering bears or dogs  ;  the two out -  
landish customers approached the counter ,  and showed what 
they wanted .  

As their wine was measuring out ,  a man parted from 
another man in a corner ,  and rose to depart .  In going ,  he 
had to face Miss Pross .  No sooner did he face her ,  than 
Miss Pross uttered a scream ,  and clapped her hands .  

In a moment ,  the whole company were on their feet .  
That somebody was assassinated by somebody vindicating 
a difference of opinion was the likeliest occurrence .  Every -  
body looked to see somebody fall ,  but only saw a man and 
a woman standing staring at each other  ;  the man with all 
the outward aspect of a Frenchman and a thorough Kepub -  
lican  ;  the woman ,  evidently English .  

What was said in this disappointing anti - climax ,  by the 
disciples of the Good Kepublican Brutus of Antiquity ,  
except that it was something very voluble and loud ,  would 
have been as so much Hebrew or Chaldean to Miss Pross 
and her protector ,  though they had been all ears .  But ,  they 
had no ears for anything in their surprise .  For ,  it must be 
recorded ,  that not only was Miss Pross lost in amazement 
and agitation ,  but ,  Mr .  Cruncher — though it seemed on his 
own separate and individual account — was in a state of the 
greatest wonder .  

What is the matter? "  said the man who had caused 
Miss Pross to scream  ;  speaking in a vexed ,  abrupt voice 
 ( though in a low tone )  ,  and in English .  

 "  Oh ,  Solomon ,  dear Solomon  !   "  cried Miss Pross ,  clapping 
her hands again .   "  After not setting eyes upon you or hear -  
ing of you for so long a time ,  do I find you here  !   "  

 "  Dont call me Solomon .  Do you want to be the death 
of me ?  "  asked the man ,  in a furtive ,  frightened way .  

 " Brother ,  brother !  "  cried Miss Pross ,  bursting into tears .  
 "  Have I ever been so hard with you that you ask me such 
a cruel question ?  "  

 " Then hold your meddlesome tongue ,  "  said Solomon ,  
 "  and come out ,  if you want to speak to me .  Pay for your 
wine ,  and come out .  Whos this man ?  "  

Miss Pross ,  shaking her loving and dejected head at her 
by no means affectionate brother ,  said through her tears ,  
 "  Mr .  Cruncher /  



332 



A TALE OF TWO CITIES 



u Let him come out too ,  "  said Solomon .   " Does he think 
me a ghost ?  "  

Apparently ,  Mr .  Cruncher did ,  to judge from his looks .  
He said not a word ,  however ,  and Miss Pross ,  exploring the 
depths of her reticule through her tears with great difficulty ,  
paid for her wine .  As she did so ,  Solomon turned to the 
followers of the Good Republican Brutus of Antiquity ,  and 
offered a few words of explanation in the French language ,  
which caused them all to relapse into their former places 
and pursuits .  

 " Now ,  "  said Solomon ,  stopping at the dark street corner ,  
• what do you want ?  "  

 "  How dreadfully unkind in a brother nothing has ever 
turned my love away from  !   "  cried Miss Pross ,   "  to give me 
such a greeting ,  and show me no affection .  "  

 "  There .  Con - found it  !  There ,  "  said Solomon ,  making 
a dab at Miss Prosss lips with his own .   "  Now are you 
content ?  "  

Miss Pross only shook her head and wept in silence .  
 " If you expect me to be surprised ,  "  said her brother 
Solomon ,   "  I am not surprised  ;  I knew you were here  ;  I 
know of most people who are here .  If you really dont 
want to endanger my existence — which I half believe you do 
— go your ways as soon as possible ,  and let me go mine .  I 
am bus} .  I am an official .  "  

 " My English brother Solomon ,  "  mourned Miss Pross ,  
casting up her tear - fraught eyes ,  that had the makings in 
him of one of the best and greatest of men in his native 
country ,  an official among foreigners ,  and such foreigners  !  
I would almost sooner have seen the dear boy lying in 

his  "  

 "  I said so  !   "  cried her brother ,  interrupting .   "  I knew it .  
You want to be the death of me .  I shall be rendered 
Suspected ,  by my own sister .  Just as 1 am getting on  !  

* The gracious and merciful Heavens forbid  !   "  cried Miss 
Pross .   " Far rather would I never see you again ,  dear 
Solomon ,  though I have ever loved you truly ,  and ever shall .  
Say but one affectionate word to me ,  and tell me there is 
nothing angry or estranged between us ,  and I will detain 
you no longer .  "  

Good Miss Pross  !  As if the estrangement between them 
had come of any culpability of hers .  As if Mr .  Lorry had 
not known it for a fact ,  years ago .  in the cpuiet corner in 



JOHN SOLOMON ,  OR SOLOMON JOHN 333 

Soho ,  that this precious brother had spent her money and 
left her  !  

He was saying the affectionate word ,  however ,  with a far 
more grudging condescension and patronage than he could 
have shown if their relative merits and positions had been 
reversed  ( which is invariably the case ,  all the world over )  ,  
when Mr .  Cruncher ,  touching him on the shoulder ,  hoarsely 
and unexpectedly interposed with the following singular 
question : 

•I say !  Might I ask the favour? As to whether your 
name is John Solomon ,  or Solomon John ?  "  

The official turned towards him with sudden distrust .  He 
had not previously uttered a word .  

 " Come  !  "  said Mr .  Cruncher .   " Speak out ,  you know .  "  
 ( Which ,  by the way ,  was more than he could do himself .  )  
 "  John Solomon ,  or Solomon John ? She calls you Solomon ,  
and she must know ,  being your sister .  And I know youre 
John ,  you know .  Which of the two goes first? And 
regarding that name of Pross ,  likewise .  That warnt your 
name over the water .  "  
 "  What do you mean ?  "  

 "  Well ,  I dont know all I mean ,  for I cant call to mind 
what your name was ,  over the water .  "  
 "  No ?  "  

 "  No .  But Ill swear it was a name of two syllables .  "  
 "  Indeed ?  "  

 "  Yes .  Tother ones was one syllable .  I know you .  You 
was a spy - witness at the Bailey .  What ,  in the name of the 
Father of Lies ,  own father to yourself ,  was you called at 
that time ?  "  

 "  Barsad ,  "  said another voice ,  striking in .  
 "  Thats the name for a thousand pound  !   "  cried Jerry .  
The speaker who struck in ,  was Sydney Carton .  He had 
his hands behind him under the skirts of his riding - coat ,  ami 
he stood at Mr .  Crunchers elbow as negligently as he might 
have stood at the Old Bailey itself .  

 "  Dont be alarmed ,  my dear Miss Pross .  I arrived at 
Mr .  Lorrys ,  to his surprise ,  yesterday evening  ;  we agreed 
that I would not present myself elsewhere until all was well ,  
or unless I could be useful  ;  I present myself here ,  to beg 
a little talk with your brother .  I wish you had a better 
employed brother than Mr .  Barsad .  I wish for your sake 
Mr .  Barsad w ; is not a Sheep of the Prisons .  "  



334 A TALE OF TWO CITIES 

Sheep was a cant word of the time for a spy ,  under the 
gaolers .  The spy ,  who was pale ,  turned paler ,  and asked 
him how he dared 

Ill tell you ,  "  said Sydney .   " I lighted on you ,  Mr .  
Barsad ,  coming out of the prison of the Conciergerie while 
I was contemplating the walls ,  an hour or more ago .  You 
have a face to be remembered ,  and I remember faces well .  
Made curious by seeing you in that connection ,  and having 
a reason ,  to which you are no stranger ,  for associating you 
with the misfortunes of a friend now very unfortunate ,  I 
walked in your direction .  I walked into the wine - shop here ,  
close after you ,  and sat near you .  I had no difficulty in 
deducing from your unreserved conversation ,  and the rumour 
openly going about among your admirers ,  the nature of your 
calling .  And gradually ,  what I had done at random ,  seemed 
to shape itself into a purpose ,  Mr .  Barsad .  "  

 "  What purpose ?  "  the spy asked .  

It would be troublesome ,  and might be dangerous ,  to 
explain in the street .  Could you favour me ,  in confidence ,  
with some minutes of your company — at the office of Tellsons 
Bank ,  for instance ?  "  

 "  Under a threat ?  "  

 "  Oh  !  Did I say that ? 

 " Then ,  why should I go there?  "  

 "  Keally ,  Mr .  Barsad ,  I cant say ,  if you cant .  "  

 "  Do you mean that you wont say ,  sir ?  "  the spy irre -  
solutely asked .  

 " You apprehend me very clearly ,  Mr .  Barsad .  I wont .  "  

Cartons negligent recklessness of manner came powerfully 
in aid of his quickness and skill ,  in such a business as he 
had in his secret mind ,  and with such a man as he had to 
do with .  His practised eye saw it ,  and made the most of it .  

 "  Now .  I told you so ,  "  said the spy ,  casting a reproachful 
look at his sister  ;   "  if any trouble comes of this ,  its your 
doing .  "  

 " Come ,  come ,  Mr .  Barsad  !  "  exclaimed Sydney .   " Dont 
be ungrateful .  But for my great respect for your sister .  I 
might not have led up so pleasantly to a little proposal that 
I wish to make for our mutual satisfaction .  Do you go with 
me to the Bank ?  "  

Ill hear what you have got to say .  Yes ,  Ill go with 
you .  "  

 " I propose that we first conduct your sister safely to the 



A REMARKABLE FACE 335 

corner of her own street .  Let me take your arm ,  Miss Pross .  
This is not a good city ,  at this time ,  for you to be out in ,  
unprotected  ;  and as your escort knows Mr .  Barsad ,  I will 
invite him to Mr .  Lorrys with us .  Are we ready ? Come 
then  !   "  

Miss Pross recalled soon afterwards ,  and to the end of her 
life remembered ,  that as she pressed her hands on Sydneys 
arm and looked up in his face ,  imploring him to do no hurt 
to Solomon ,  there was a braced purpose in the arm and a 
kind of inspiration in the eyes ,  which not only contradicted 
his light manner ,  but changed and raised the man .  She 
was too much occupied then with fears for the brother who 
so little deserved her affection ,  and with Sydneys friendly 
reassurances ,  adequately to heed what she observed .  

They left her at the corner of the street ,  and Carton led 
the way to Mr .  Lorrys ,  which was within a few minutes 
walk .  John Barsad ,  or Solomon Pross ,  walked at his side .  

Mr .  Lorry had just finished his dinner ,  and was sitting 
before a cheery little log or two of fire— perhaps looking into 
their blaze for the picture of that younger elderly gentle -  
man from Tellsons ,  who had looked into the red coals at 
the Royal George at Dover ,  now a good many years ago .  
He turned his head as they entered ,  and showed the surprise 
with which he saw a stranger .  

 " Miss Prosss brother ,  sir ,  "  said Sydney .  Mr .  Barsad .   "  

 "  Barsad ?  "  repeated the old gentleman ,   "  Barsad ? I have 
an association with the name — and with the face .  "  

 " I told you you had a remarkable face ,  Mr .  Barsad ,  "  
observed Carton ,  coolly .   "  Pray sit down .  "  

As he took a chair himself ,  he supplied the link that Mr .  
Lorry wanted ,  by saying to him with a frown ,   " Witness at 
that trial .  "  Mr .  Lorry immediately remembered ,  and re -  
garded his new visitor with an undisguised look of abhor -  
rence .  

 " Mr .  Barsad has been recognised by Miss Pross as the 
affectionate brother you have heard of ,  "  said Sydney ,   " and 
has acknowledged the relationship .  I pass to worse news .  
Darnay has been arrested again .  "  

Struck with consternation ,  the old gentleman exclaimed ,  
 " What do you tell me !  I left him safe and free within 
these two hours ,  and am about to return to him  !   "  

 "  Arrested for all that .  When was it done .  Mr .  Barsad ?  "  

 " Just now ,  if at all .  "  



336 A TALE OF TWO CITIES 

 " Mr .  Barsad is the best authority possible ,  sir ,  "  said 
Sydney ,   "  and I have it from Mr .  Barsad s communication to 
a friend and brother Sheep over a bottle of wine ,  that the 
arrest has taken place .  He left the messengers at the gate ,  
and saw them admitted by the porter .  There is no earthly 
doubt that he is retaken .  * 

Mr .  Lorrys business eye read in the speakers face that it 
was loss of time to dwell upon the point .  Confused ,  but 
sensible that something might depend on his presence of 
mind ,  he commanded himself ,  and was silently attentive .  

 " Now .  I trust .  "  said Sydney to him .   -  - that the name and 
influence of Doctor Manette may stand him in as good stead 
to - morrow — you said he would be before the Tribunal again 
to - morrow .  Mr .  Barsad?  "  

 "  Yes  ;  I believe so . * 

■ — In as good stead to - morrow as to - day .  But it may 
not be so .  I own to you ,  I am shaken .  Mr .  Lorry ,  by 
Doctor Manettes not having had the power to prevent this 
arrest .   "  

 " He may not have known of it beforehand ,  "  said Mr .  
Lorry .  

 "  But that very circumstance would be alarming ,  when we 
remember how identified he is with his son - in - law .  "  

 " Thats true ,  "  Mr .  Lorry acknowledged ,  with his troubled 
hand at his chin ,  and his troubled eyes on Carton .  

 " In short ,  "  said Sydney ,   " this is a desperate time ,  when 
desperate games are played for desperate stakes .  Let the 
Doctor play the winning game  ;  I will play the losing one .  
No mans life here is worth purchase .  Any one carried home 
by the people to - day .  may be condemned to - morrow .  Now .  
the stake I have resolved to play for .  in case of the worst ,  is 
a friend in the Conciergerie .  And the friend I purpose to 
myself to win ,  is Mr .  Barsad .  "  

 " You need have good cards ,  sir ,  "  said the spy .  

 "  Ill run them over .  Ill see what I hold .  — Mr .  Lorry .  
you know what a brute I am  ;  I wish youd give me a little 
brandy .  "  

It was put before him .  and he drank off a glassful — drank 
off another glassful — pushed the bottle thoughtfully away .  

 "  Mr .  Barsad .  "  he went on .  in the tone of one who really 
was looking over a hand at cards:  " Sheep of the prisons ,  
emissary of Republican committees ,  now turnkey ,  now 
prisoner ,  always spy and secret informer ,  so much the more 



SYDNEY CARTON RUNS OVER HIS CARDS 337 

valuable here for being English that an Englishman is less 
open to suspicion of subornation in those characters than a 
Frenchman ,  represents himself to his employers under a false 
name .  Thats a very good card .  Mr .  Barsad ,  now in the 
employ of the republican French government ,  was formerly 
in the employ of the aristocratic English government ,  the 
enemy of France and freedom .  Thats an excellent card .  
Inference clear as day in this region of suspicion ,  that Mr .  
Barsad ,  still in the pay of the aristocratic English govern -  
ment ,  is the spy of Pitt ,  the treacherous foe of the Kepublic 
crouching in its bosom ,  the English traitor and agent of all 
mischief so much spoken of and so difficult to find .  Thats 
a card not to be beaten .  Have you followed my hand ,  Mr .  
Barsad ?  "  

 " Not to understand your play .  "  returned the spy ,  some -  
what uneasily .  

 "  I play my Ace ,  Denunciation of Mr .  Barsad to the nearest 
Section Committee .  Look over your hand ,  Mr .  Barsad ,  and 
see what you have .  Dont hurry .  "  

He drew the bottle near ,  poured out another glassful of 
brandy ,  and drank it off .  He saw that the spy was fearful 
of his drinking himself into a fit state for the immediate 
denunciation of him .  Seeing it ,  he poured out and drank 
another glassful .  

 " Look over your hand carefully ,  Mr .  Barsad .  Take time .  "  

It was a poorer hand than he suspected .  Mr .  Barsad saw 
losing cards in it that Sydney Carton knew nothing of .  
Thrown out of his honourable employment in England ,  
through too much unsuccessful hard swearing there — not 
because he was not wanted there : our English reasons for 
vaunting our superiority to secrecy and spies are of very 
modern date — he knew that he had crossed the Channel ,  and 
accepted service in France : first ,  as a tempter and an eaves -  
dropper among his own countrymen there : gradually ,  as a 
tempter and an eavesdropper among the natives .  He knew 
that under the overthrown government he had been a spy upon 
Saint Antoine and Defarges wine - shop  ;  had received from 
the watchful police such heads of information concerning 
Doctor Manettes imprisonment ,  release ,  and history ,  as should 
serve him for an introduction to familiar conversation with 
the Defarges  ;  and tried them on Madame Defarge ,  and had 
broken down with them signally .  He always remembered 
witli fear and trembling ,  that that terrible woman had 



338 A TALE OF TWO CITIES 

knitted when he talked with her ,  and had looked ominously 
at him as her fingers moved .  He had since seen her ,  in the 
Section of Saint Antoine ,  over and over again produce her 
knitted registers ,  and denounce people whose lives the 
guillotine then surely swallowed up .  He knew ,  as every one 
employed as he was did ,  that he was never safe  ;  that flight 
was impossible  ;  that he was tied fast under the shadow of 
the axe  ;  and that in spite of his utmost tergiversation and 
treachery in furtherance of the reigning terror ,  a word might 
bring it down upon him .  Once denounced ,  and on such grave 
grounds as had just now been suggested to his mind ,  he fore -  
saw that the dreadful woman of whose unrelenting character 
he had seen many proofs ,  would produce against him that 
fatal register ,  and would quash his last chance of life .  Besides 
that all secret men are men soon terrified ,  here were surely 
cards enough of one black suit ,  to justify the holder in 
growing rather livid as he turned them over .  

 "  You scarcely seem to like your hand . * said Sydney ,  with 
the greatest composure .   "  Do you play ?  "  

 "  I think ,  sir ,  "  said the spy ,  in the meanest manner ,  as he 
turned to Mr .  Lorry ,   "  I may appeal to a gentleman of your 
years and benevolence ,  to put it to this other gentleman ,  so 
much your junior ,  whether he can under any circumstances 
reconcile it to his station to play that Ace of which he has 
spoken .  I admit that I am a spy ,  and that it is considered 
a discreditable station — though it must be filled by somebody  ;  
but this gentleman is no spy ,  and why should he so demean 
himself as to make himself one ?  "  

*I play my Ace ,  Mr .  Barsad ,  "  said Carton ,  taking the 
answer on himself ,  and looking at his watch ,   " without any 
scruple in a very few minutes .  "  

•• I should have hoped ,  gentlemen both ,  "  said the spy .  
always striving to hook Mr .  Lorry into the discussion ,   "  that 
your respect for my sister  "  

•• I could not better testify my respect for your sister than 
by finally relieving her of her brother ,  "  said Sydney Carton .  

 "  You think not ,  sir ?  "  

U I have thoroughly made up my mind about it .  "  

The smooth manner of the spy ,  curiously in dissonance 
with his ostentatiously rough dress ,  and probably with his 
usual domeanour ,  received such a check from the inscrutability 
of Carton ,  — who was a mystery to wiser and honester men 
than he . — that it faltered lure and failed him .  While he was 



another Goor> carp 339 

at a loss ,  Carton said ,  resuming his former air of contem -  
plating cards : 

 " And indeed ,  now I think again ,  I have a strong impres -  
sion that I have another good card here ,  not yet enumerated .  
That friend and fellow - Sheep ,  who spoke of himself as 
pasturing in the countiy prisons  ;  who was he ?  "  

 "  French .  You dont know him ,  "  said the spy ,  quickly .  

 "  French ,  eh? "  repeated Carton ,  musing ,  and not appearing 
to notice him at all ,  though he echoed his word .   "  Well  ;  
he may be .  "  

 " Is ,  I assure you ,  "  said the spy ;   " though its not im -  
portant .   "  

 "  Though its not important ,  "  repeated Carton in the same 

mechanical way —  "  though its not important No ,  its not 

important .  No .  Yet I know the face .  "  

 "  I think not .  I am sure not .  It cant be ,  "  said the spy .  

 " It— cant — be ,  "  muttered Sydney Carton ,  retrospectively ,  
and filling his glass  ( which fortunately was a small one )  again .  
 " Cant— be .  Spoke good French .  Yet like a foreigner ,  
I thought ?  "  

 " Provincial ,  "  said the spy .  

 " No .  Foreign  !   "  cried Carton ,  striking his open hand on 
the table ,  as a light broke clearly on his mind .   "  Cly  !  
Disguised ,  but the same man .  We had that man before us 
at the Old Bailey .  "  

 "  Now ,  there you are hasty ,  sir ,  "  said Barsad ,  with a smile 
that gave his aquiline nose an extra inclination to one side  ;  
 " there you really give me an advantage over you .  Cly  ( who 
I will unreservedly admit ,  at this distance of time ,  was a 
partner of mine )  has been dead several years .  I attended 
him in his last illness .  He was buried in London ,  at the 
church of Saint Pancras - in - the - Fields .  His unpopularity 
with the blackguard multitude at the moment prevented my 
following his remains ,  but I helped to lay him in his coffin .  "  

Here ,  Mr .  Lorry became aware ,  from where he sat ,  of a 
most remarkable goblin shadow on the wall .  Tracing it to 
its source ,  he discovered it to be caused by a sudden extra -  
ordinary rising and stiffening of all the risen and stiff hair 
on Mr .  Crunchers head .  

 " Let us be reasonable ,  "  said the spy ,   " and let us be fair .  
To show you how mistaken you are ,  and what an unfounded 
assumption yours is ,  I will lay before you a certificate of Clys 
burial ,  which I happen to have earned in my pocket - book  "  



9 



340 A TALE OF TWO CITIES 

with a hurried hand he produced and opened it ,   "  ever since .  
There it is .  Oh ,  look at it ,  look at it  !  You may take it in 
your hand  ;  its no forgery .  "  

Here ,  Mr .  Lorry perceived the reflection on the wall to 
elongate ,  and Mr .  Cruncher rose and stepped forward .  His 
hair could not have been more violently on end ,  if it had 
been that moment dressed by the Cow with the crumpled 
horn in the house that Jack built .  

Unseen by the spy ,  Mr .  Cruncher stood at his side ,  and 
touched him on the shoulder like a ghostly bailiff .  

 " That there Eoger Cly ,  master ,  "  said Mr .  Cruncher ,  with 
a taciturn and iron - bound visage .   " So you put him in his 
coffin ?  "  

 " I did .  "  

 "  Who took him out of it ?  "  

Barsad leaned back in his chair ,  and stammered ,   "  What 
do you mean ?  "  

 " I mean ,  "  said Mr .  Cruncher ,   " that he warnt never in 
it .  No  !  Not he  !  Ill have my head took off ,  if he was 
ever in it .  "  

The spy looked round at the two gentlemen  ;  they both 
looked in unspeakable astonishment at Jerry .  

 "  I tell you ,  "  said Jerry ,   " that you buried paving - stones 
and earth in that there coffin .  Dont go and tell me that 
you buried Cly .  It was a take in .  Me and two more 
knows it .  "  

• How do you know it ?  "  

 "  Whats that to you ? Ecod  !   "  growled Mr .  Cruncher ,  
 "  its you I have got a old grudge again ,  is it ,  with your 
shameful impositions upon tradesmen  !  Id catch hold of 
your throat and choke you for half a guinea .   "  

Sydney Carton ,  who ,  with Mr .  Lorry ,  had been lost in 
amazement at this turn of the business ,  here recpiested 
Mr .  Cruncher to moderate and explain himself .  

 "  At another time ,  sir ,  "  he returned ,  evasively ,   " the present 
time is ill - conwenient for explainin .  What I stand to ,  is ,  
that he knows well wot that there Cly was never in that 
there coffin .  Let him say he was ,  in so much as a word of 
one syllable ,  and Ill either catch hold of his throat and 
choke him for half a guinea  ;   "  Mr .  Cruncher dwelt upon 
this as quite a liberal offer ;   " or Ill out and announce 
him .  "  

 " Humph !  I see one thing ,  "  said Carton .  I hold 



FOR HALF A GUINEA 34 1 

another card ,  Mr .  Barsad .  Impossible ,  here in raging Paris ,  
with Suspicion filling the air ,  for you to outlive denuncia -  
tion ,  when you are in communication with another aristo -  
cratic spy of the same antecedents as yourself ,  who ,  moreover ,  
has the mystery about him of having feigned death and 
come to life again  !  A plot in the prisons ,  of the foreigner 
against the Republic .  A strong card — a certain Guillotine 
card  !  Do you play ? * 

 "  No  !   "  returned the spy .   "  I throw up .  I confess that 
we were so unpopular with the outrageous mob ,  that I only 
got away from England at the risk of being ducked to death ,  
and that Cly was so ferreted up and down ,  that he never 
would have got away at all but for that sham .  Though 
how this man knows it was a sham ,  is a wonder of wonders 
to me .  "  

 "  Never you trouble your head about this man ,  retorted 
the contentious Mr .  Cruncher  ;   "  youll have trouble enough 
with giving your attention to that gentleman .  And look 
here  !  Once more  !   "  — Mr .  Cruncher could not be restrained 
from making rather an ostentatious parade of his liberality — 
 " Id catch hold of your throat and choke you for half a 
guinea .  "  

The Sheep of the prisons turned from him to Sydney 
Carton ,  and said ,  with more decision ,   "  It has come to a 
point .  I go on duty soon ,  and cant overstay my time .  
You told me you had a proposal  ;  what is it ? Now ,  it is 
of no use asking too much of me .  Ask me to do anything 
in my office ,  putting my head in great extra danger ,  and 
I had better trust my life to the chances of a refusal than 
the chances of consent .  In short ,  I should make that 
choice .  You talk of desperation .  We are all desperate 
here .  Remember  !  I may denounce you if I think proper ,  
and I can swear my way through stone walls ,  and so can 
others .  Now ,  what do you want with me ? * 

 "  Not very much .  You are a turnkey at the Conciergerie? "  

 "  I tell you once for all ,  there is no such thing as an 
escape possible ,  "  said the spy ,  firmly .  

 "  Why need you tell me what I have not asked ? You 
are a turnkey at the Conciergerie ?  "  

 " I am sometimes .  "  

 "  You can be when you choose .  "  

 "  I can pass in and out when I choose .  "  

Sydney Carton filled another glass with brandy ,  poured it 



342 A TALE OF TWO CITIES 

slowly out upon the hearth ,  and watched it as it dropped .  
It being all spent ,  he said ,  rising : 

 " So far ,  we have spoken before these two ,  because it war ,  
as well that the merits of the cards should not rest solely 
between you and me .  Come into the dark room here ,  and 
let us have one final word alone .  "  



CHAPTER IX 

THE GAME MADE 

While Sydney Carton and the Sheep of the prisons were in 
the adjoining dark room ,  speaking so low that not a sound 
was heard ,  Mr .  Lorry looked at Jerry in considerable doubt 
and mistrust .  That honest tradesmans manner of receiving 
the look ,  did not inspire confidence  ;  he changed the leg on 
which he rested ,  as often as if he had fifty of those limbs ,  
and were trying them all  ;  he examined his finger - nails with 
a very questionable closeness of attention  ;  and whenever 
Mr .  Lorrys eye caught his ,  he was taken with that peculiar 
kind of short cough requiring the hollow of a hand before 
it .  which is seldom ,  if ever ,  known to be an infirmity 
attendant on perfect openness of character .  

 "  Jerry ,  "  said Mr .  Lorry .   "  Come here .  "  

Mr .  Cruncher came forward sideways ,  with one of his 
shoulders in advance of him .  

 " What have you been ,  besides a messenger?  "  

After some cogitation ,  accompanied with an intent look 
at his patron ,  Mr .  Cruncher conceived the luminous idea of 
replying ,   "  Agricultooral character .  "  

 "  My mind misgives me much ,  "  said Mr .  Lorry ,  angrily 
shaking a forefinger at him ,   "  that you have used the respect -  
able and great house of Tellsons as a blind ,  and that you 
have had an unlawful occupation of an infamous description .  
If you have ,  dont expect me to befriend you when you get 
back to England .  If you have ,  dont expect me to keep your 
secret .  Tellsons shall not be imposed upon .  "  

 " I hope ,  sir ,  "  pleaded the abashed Mr .  Cruncher ,   " that 
a gentleman like yourself wot Ive had the honour of odd 
jobbing till Im grey at it ,  would think twice about harming 
of me ,  even if it wos so — I dont say it is ,  but even if it wos .  
And which it is to be took into account that if it wos .  it 
wouldnt ,  even then ,  be all o one side .  Thered be two sides 
to it .  There might be medical doctors at the present hour ,  



344 A TALE OF TWO CITIES 

«i picking up their guineas where a honest tradesman dont 
pick up his fardens — fardens  !  no ,  nor yet his half fardens — 
half fardens  !  no ,  nor yet his quarter— a banking away like 
smoke at Tellsons ,  and a cocking their medical eyes at that 
tradesman on the sly ,  a going in and going out to their own 
carriages — ah  !  equally like smoke ,  if not more so .  Well ,  
that *ud be imposing ,  too ,  on Tellsons ,  For you cannot 
sarse the goose and not the gander .  And heres Mrs .  Cruncher ,  
or leastways wos in the Old England times ,  and would be 
to - morrow ,  if cause given ,  a floppin again the business to 
that degree as is ruinating — stark ruinating  !  Whereas them 
medical doctors wives dont flop — catch em at it  !  Or ,  if 
they flop ,  their floppings goes in favour of more patients ,  
and how can you rightly have one without the tother ? 
Then ,  wot with undertakers ,  and wot with parish clerks ,  
and wot with sextons ,  and wot with private watchmen  ( all 
awaricious and all in it )  ,  a man wouldnt get much by it ,  
even if it wos so .  And wot little a man did get .  would 
never prosper with him ,  Mr .  Lorry .  Hed never have no 
good of it  ;  hed want all along to be out of the line ,  if he 
could see his way out .  being once in — even if it wos so .  "  

 "  Ugh  !   "  cried Mr .  Lorry ,  rather relenting ,  nevertheless .  
 "  I am shocked at the sight of you .  "  

 " Now ,  what I would humbly offer to you ,  sir ,  "  pursued 
Mr .  Cruncher ,  even if it wos so ,  which I dont say it 
is  "  

 "  Dont prevaricate ,  "  said Mr .  Lorry .  

 "  No ,  I will not ,  sir ,  "  returned Mr .  Cruncher ,  as if nothing 
were further from his thoughts or practice —  "  which I dont 
say it is — wot I would humbly offer to you ,  sir ,  would be 
this .  Upon that there stool ,  at that there Bar .  sets that 
there boy of mine ,  brought up and growed up to be a man .  
wot will errand you ,  message you ,  general - light - job you ,  till 
your heels is where your head is .  if such should be your 
wishes .  If it wos so ,  which I still dont say it is  ( for I will 
not prewaricate to you ,  sir )  ,  let that there boy keep his 
fathers place ,  and take care of his mother  ;  dont blow upon 
that boys father — do not do it ,  sir — and let that father go 
into the line of the reglar diggin ,  and make amends for 
what he would have un - dug — if it wos so — by diggin of 
em in with a will ,  and with conwictions respectin the futur 
keepin of em safe .  That ,  Mr .  Lorry .  "  said Mr .  Cruncher ,  
wiping his forehead with his arm ,  as an announcement that 



ME .  CRUNCHERS PROTEST 345 

he had arrived at the peroration of his discourse ,   "  is wot 
I would respectfully offer to you ,  sir .  A man dont see 
all this here a goin on dreadful round him ,  in the way of 
Subjects without heads ,  dear me ,  plentiful enough fur to 
bring the price down to porterage and hardly that ,  without 
havin his serious thoughts of things .  And these here would 
be mine ,  if it wos so ,  entreatin of you fur to bear in mind 
that wot I said just now ,  I up and said in the good cause 
when I might have kep it back .  "  

 " That at least is true ,  "  said Mr .  Lorry .   "  Say no more 
now .  It may be that I shall yet stand your friend ,  if you 
deserve it ,  and repent in action — not in words .  I want no 
more words .  "  

Mr .  Cruncher knuckled his forehead ,  as Sydney Carton 
and the spy returned from the dark room .   "  Adieu ,  Mr .  
Barsad ,  "  said the former  ;   "  our arrangement thus made ,  
you have nothing to fear from me .  "  

He sat down in a chair on the hearth ,  over against 
Mr .  Lorry .  When they were alone ,  Mr .  Lurry asked him 
what he had done? 

 "  Not much .  If it should go ill with the prisoner ,  I have 
ensured access to him ,  once .  "  

Mr .  Lorrys countenance fell .  

 " It is all I could do ,  "  said Carton .   " To propose too 
much ,  would be to put this mans head under the axe ,  and ,  
as he himself said ,  nothing worse could happen to him if he 
were denounced .  It was obviously the weakness of the 
position .  There is no help for it .  "  

 " But access to him ,  "  said Mr .  Lorry ,   " if it should go ill 
before the Tribunal ,  will not save him .  "  

 " I never said it would .  "  

Mr .  Lorrys eyes gradually sought the fire  ;  his sympathy 
with his darling ,  and the heavy disappointment of this 
second arrest ,  gradually weakened them  ;  he was an old man 
now ,  overborne with anxiety of late ,  and his tears fell .  

 "  You are a good man and a true friend ,  "  said Carton ,  in 
an altered voice .   " Forgive me if I notice that you are 
affected .  I could not see my father weep ,  and sit by ,  care -  
less .  And I could not respect your sorrow more ,  if you 
were my father .  You are free from that misfortune ,  how -  
ever .  "  

Though he said the last words ,  with a slip into his usual 
manner ,  there was a true feeling and respect both in his tone 



346 A TALE OF TWO CITIES 

and in his touch ,  that Mr .  Lorry ,  who had never seen the 
better side of him ,  was wholly unprepared for .  He gave him 
his hand ,  and Carton gently pressed it .  

 " To return to poor Darnay ,  "  said Carton .   " Dont tell 
Her of this interview ,  or this arrangement .  It would not 
enable Her to go to see him .   . She might think it was con -  
trived ,  in case of the worst ,  to convey to him the means of 
anticipating the sentence .  "  

Mr .  Lorry had not thought of that ,  and he looked quickly 
at Carton to see if it were in his mind .  It seemed to be  ;  he 
returned the look ,  and evidently understood it .  

 "  She might think a thousand things ,  "  Carton said ,  and 
any of them would only add to her trouble .  Dont speak 
of me to her .  As I said to you when I first came ,  I had 
better not see her .  I can put my hand out ,  to do any little 
helpful work for her that my hand can find to do ,  without 
that .  You are going to her .  I hope? She must be very 
desolate to - night .  "  

 "  I am going now ,  directly .  "  

 "  I am glad of that .  She has such a strong attachment to 
you and reliance on you .  How does she look ?  "  

Anxious and unhappy ,  but very beautiful .  "  

• Ah  !   "  

It was a long ,  grieving sound ,  like a sigh— almost like a 
sob .  It attracted Mr .  Lorrys eyes to Cartons face ,  which 
was turned to the fire .  A light ,  or a shade  ( the old gentle -  
man could not have said which )  ,  passed from it as swiftly as 
a change will sweep over a hill - side on a wild bright day ,  
and he lifted his foot to put back one of the little flaming 
logs ,  which was tumbling forward .  He wore the Avhite 
riding - coat and top - boots ,  then in vogue ,  and the light of 
the fire touching their light surfaces made him look very 
pale ,  with his long brown hair ,  all untrimmed ,  hanging loose 
about him .  His indifference to fire was sufficiently remark -  
able to elicit a word of remonstrance from Mr .  Lorry  ;  his 
boot was still upon the hot embers of the flaming log ,  when 
it had broken under the weight of his foot .  

* I forgot it ,  "  he said .  

Mr .  Lorrys eyes were again attracted to his face .  Taking 
note of the wasted air which clouded the naturally hand -  
some features ,  and having the expression of prisoners faces 
fresh in his mind ,  he was strongly reminded of that ex -  
pression .  



SYDNEY CARTON AND MB .  LOKRY 347 

 " And your duties here have drawn to an end ,  sir? "  said 
Carton ,  turning to him .  

 " Yes .  As I was telling you last night when Lucie came 
in so unexpectedly .  I have at length done all that I can do 
here .  I hoped to have left them in perfect safety ,  and then 
to have quitted Paris .  I have my Leave to Pass .  I was 
ready to go .  "  

They were both silent .  

 " Yours is a long life to look back upon ,  sir?  "  said Carton ,  
wistfully .  

 " I am in my seventy - eighth year .  "  

 " You have been useful all your life ;  steadily and con -  
stantly occupied  ;  trusted ,  respected ,  and looked up to ?  "  

 "  I have been a man of business ,  ever since I have been a 
man .  Indeed ,  I may say that I was a man of business when 
a boy .  "  

•• See what a place you fill at seventy - eight .  How many 
people will miss you when you leave it empty  !   "  

 " A solitary old bachelor .  "  answered Mr .  Lorry ,  shaking 
his head .   "  There is nobody to weep for me .  "  

 " How can you sav that? Wouldnt She weep for you? 
Wouldnt her child? "  

 " Yes ,  yes ,  thank God .  I didnt quite mean what I said .  "  

 "  It is a thing to thank God for  ;  is it not ?  "  

• Surely ,  surely .  "  

 "  If you could say .  with truth ,  to your own solitary heart ,  
to - night ,  I have secured to myself the love and attachment ,  
the gratitude or respect ,  of no human creature  ;  I have won 
myself a tender place in no regard  ;  I have done nothing 
good or serviceable to be remembered by  !   your seventy -  
eight years would be seventy - eight heavy curses ;  would 
they not? "  

 "  You say truly ,  Mr .  Carton  ;  I think they would be .  "  

Sydney turned his eyes again upon the fire ,  and ,  after a 
silence of a few moments ,  said : 

 " I should like to ask you: — Does your childhood seem 
far off? Do the days when you sat at your mothers knee ,  
seem days of very long ago ?  "  

Responding to his softened manner ,  Mr .  Lorry answered : 

 "  Twenty years back ,  yes  ;  at this time of my life .  no .  
For ,  as I draw closer and closer to the end ,  I travel in the 
circle ,  nearer and nearer to the beginning .  It seems to be 
one of the kind smoothings and preparings of the way .  My 



348 A TALE OF TWO CITIES 

heart is touched now ,  by many remembrances that had long 
fallen asleep ,  of my pretty young mother  ( and I so old  !   )  ,  and 
by many associations of the days when what we call the 
World was not so real with me ,  and my faults were not con -  
firmed in me .  "  

 "  I understand the feeling !  "  exclaimed Carton ,  with a 
bright flush .   "  And you are the better for it ?  "  

 "  I hope so .  "  

Carton terminated the conversation here ,  by rising to help 
him on with his outer coat  ;   "  but you ,  "  said Mr .  Lorry ,  
reverting to the theme ,   "  you are young .  "  

 "  Yes ,  "  said Carton .   " I am not old ,  but my young way 
was never the way to age .  Enough of me .  "  

 " And of me ,  I am sure ,  "  said Mr .  Lorry .   " Are you 
going out ?  "  

 "  Ill walk with you to her gate .  You know my vagabond 
and restless habits .  If I should prowl about the streets a 
long time ,  dont be uneasy  ;  I shall reappear in the morning .  
You go to the Court to - morrow ?  "  

 " Yes ,  unhappily .  "  

 "  I shall be there ,  but only as one of the crowd .  My Spy 
will find a place for me .  Take my arm ,  sir .  "  

Mr .  Lorry did so ,  and they went down - stairs and out in 
the streets .  A few minutes brought them to Mr .  Lorrys 
destination .  Carton left him there  ;  but lingered at a little 
distance ,  and turned back to the gate again when it was shut ,  
and touched it .  He had heard of her going to the prison 
every day .   "  She came out here ,  "  he said ,  looking about him ,  
 " turned this way ,  must have trod on these stones often .  
Let me follow in her steps .  "  

It was ten oclock at night when he stood before the prison 
of La Force ,  where she had stood hundreds of times .  A 
little wood - sawyer ,  having closed his shop ,  was smoking his 
pipe at his shop - door .  

 "  Good night ,  citizen ,  "  said Sydney Carton ,  pausing in 
going by  ;  for ,  the man eyed him inquisitively .  

 "  Good night ,  citizen .  "  

 "  How goes the Kepublic ?  "  

You mean the Guillotine .  Not ill .  Sixty - three to - day .  
We shall mount to a hundred soon .  Samson and his men 
complain sometimes ,  of being exhausted .  Ha ,  ha ,  ha  !  He 
is so droll ,  that Samson .  Such a Barber  !   "  

• Do you often go to see him  "  



SUCH A BARBER  !  349 

 "  Shave ? Always .  Every day .  What a barber  !  You 
have seen him at work ?  "  

 "  Never .  "  

 "  Go and see hirn when he has a good batch .  Figure this 
to yourself ,  citizen  ;  he shaved the sixty - three to - day ,  in less 
than two pipes  !  Less than two pipes .  Word of honour  !   "  

As the grinning little man held out the pipe he was 
smoking ,  to explain how he timed the executioner ,  Carton 
was so sensible of a rising desire to strike the life out of him ,  
that he turned away .  

 "  But you are not English ,  "  said the wood - sawyer ,   "  though 
you wear English dress ?  "  

 "  Yes ,  "  said Carton ,  pausing again ,  and answering over his 
shoulder .  

 " You speak like a Frenchman .  "  

 "  I am an old student here .  "  

 " Aha .  a perfect Frenchman  !  Good night ,  Englishman .  "  

 "  Good night ,  citizen .  "  

 "  But go and see that droll dog ,  "  the little man persisted ,  
calling after him .   "  And take a pipe with you  !   "  

Sydney had not gone far out of sight ,  when he stopped in 
the middle of the street under a glimmering lamp ,  and wrote 
with his pencil on a scrap of paper .  Then ,  traversing with 
the decided step of one who remembered the way well ,  
several dark and dirty streets— much dirtier than usual ,  for 
the best public thoroughfares remained uncleansed in those 
times of terror — he stopped at a chemists shop ,  which the 
owner was closing with his own hands .  A small ,  dim ,  
crooked shop ,  kept in a tortuous ,  up - hill thoroughfare ,  by 
a small ,  dim ,  crooked man .  

Giving this citizen ,  too ,  good night ,  as he confronted him 
at his counter ,  he laid the scrap of paper before him .  
 "  Whew  !   "  the chemist whistled softly ,  as he read it .   "  Hi  !  
hi  !  hi  !   "  

Sydney Carton took no heed ,  and the chemist said : 

 "  For you ,  citizen ?  "  

 "  For me .  "  

 "  You will be careful to keep them separate ,  citizen ? You 
know the consequences of mixing them ?  "  

 " Perfectly .  "  

Certain small packets were made and given to him .  He 
put them ,  one by one ,  in the breast of his inner coat ,  counted 
out the money for them ,  and deliberately left the shop .  



350 A TALE OF TWO CITIES 

 "  There is nothing move to do .  "  said he ,  glancing upward at 
the moon ,   "  until to - morrow .  I cant sleep .  "  

It was not a reckless manner ,  the manner in which he said 
these words aloud under the fast - sailing clouds ,  nor was it 
more expressive of negligence than defiance .  It was the 
settled manner of a tired man ,  who had wandered and 
struggled and got lost ,  but who at length struck into his 
road and saw its end .  

Long ago .  when he had been famous among his earliest 
competitors as a youth of great promise ,  he had followed his 
father to the grave .  His mother had died ,  years before .  
These solemn words ,  which had been read at his fathers 
grave ,  arose in his mind as he went down the dark streets ,  
among the heavy shadows ,  with the moon and the clouds 
sailing on high above him .   "  I am the resurrection and the 
life ,  saith the Lord : he that believeth in me ,  though he were 
dead ,  yet shall he live : and whosoever liveth and believeth 
in me ,  shall never die .  "  

In a city dominated by the axe ,  alone at night ,  with 
natural sorrow rising in him for the sixty - three who had 
been that day put to death ,  and for to - morrows victims then 
awaiting their doom in the prisons ,  and still of to - morrows 
and to - morrows ,  the chain of association that brought the 
words home ,  like a rusty old ships anchor from the deep ,  
might have been easily found .  He did not seek it .  but 
repeated them and went on .  

With a solemn interest in the lighted windows where the 
jjeople were going to rest ,  forgetful through a few calm 
hours of the horrors surrounding them  ;  in the towers of the 
churches ,  where no prayers were said ,  for the popular revul -  
sion had even travelled that length of self - destruction from 
years of priestly impostors ,  plunderers ,  and profligates  ;  in the 
distant burial - places ,  reserved ,  as they wrote upon the gates ,  
for Eternal Sleep  ;  in the abounding gaols  ;  and in the streets 
along which the sixties rolled to a death which had become so 
common and material ,  that no sorrowful story of a haunting 
Spirit ever arose among the people out of all the working of 
the Guillotine  ;  with a solemn interest in the whole life and 
death of the city settling down to its short nightly pause in 
fury  ;  Sydney Carton crossed the Seine again for the lighter 
streets .  

Few coaches were abroad ,  for riders in coaches were liable 
to be suspected ,  and gentility hid its head in red nightcaps ,  



THE SHADOW OF DEATH 35 T 

and put on heavy shoes ,  and trudged .  But ,  the theatres 
were all well filled ,  and the people poured cheerfully out as 
he passed ,  and went chatting home .  At one of the theatre 
doors ,  there was a little girl with a mother ,  looking for a 
way across the street through the mud .  He carried the child 
over ,  and before the timid arm was loosed from his neck 
asked her for a kiss .  

 " I am the resurrection and the life ,  saith the Lord: he 
that believeth in me ,  though he were dead ,  yet shall he live : 
and whosoever liveth and believeth in me ,  shall never die .  "  

Now ,  that the streets were quiet ,  and the night wore on ,  
the words were in the echoes of his feet ,  and were in the air .  
Perfectly calm and steady ,  he sometimes Repeated them to 
himself as he walked  ;  but ,  he heard them always .  

The night wore out ,  and ,  as he stood upon the bridge 
listening to the water as it splashed the river - walls of the 
Island of Paris ,  where the picturesque confusion of houses and 
cathedral shone bright in the light of the moon ,  the day 
came coldly ,  looking like a dead face out of the sky .  Then ,  
the night ,  with the moon and the stars ,  turned pale and died ,  
and for a little while it seemed as if Creation were delivered 
over to Deaths dominion .  

But ,  the glorious sun ,  rising ,  seemed to strike those words ,  
that burden of the night ,  straight and warm to his heart in 
its long bright rays .  And looking along them ,  with rever -  
ently shaded eyes ,  a bridge of light appeared to span the air 
between him and the sun ,  while the river sparkled under it .  

The strong tide ,  so swift ,  so deep ,  and certain ,  was like 
a congenial friend ,  in the morning stillness .  He walked by 
the stream ,  far from the houses ,  and in the light and warmth 
of the sun fell asleep on the bank .  When he awoke and was 
afoot again ,  he lingered there yet a little longer ,  watching 
an eddy that turned and turned purposeless ,  until the stream 
absorbed it ,  and carried it on to the sea .  —  "  Like me  !   "  

A trading - boat ,  with a sail of the softened colour of a dead 
leaf ,  then glided into his view ,  floated by him ,  and died away .  
As its silent track in the water disappeared ,  the prayer that 
had broken up out of his heart for a merciful consideration 
of all his poor blindnesses and errors ,  ended in the words .  
 "  I am the resurrection and the life .  "  

Mr .  Lorry was already out when he got back ,  and it was 
easy to surmise where the good old man was gone .  Sydney 
Carton drank nothing 1 but a little coffee ,  ate some bread .  

O 7 



352 A TALE OF TWO CITIES 

and ,  having washed and changed to refresh himself ,  went 
out to the place of trial .  

The court was all astir and a - huzz ,  when the hlack sheep — 
whom many fell away from in dread — pressed him into an 
ohscure corner among the crowd .  Mr .  Lorry was there ,  and 
Doctor Manette was there .  She was there ,  sitting beside her 
father .  

When her husband was brought in ,  she turned a look upon 
him ,  so sustaining ,  so encouraging ,  so full of admiring love 
and pitying tenderness ,  yet so courageous for his sake ,  that 
it called the healthy blood into his face ,  brightened his 
glance ,  and animated his heart .  If there had been any eyes 
to notice the influence of her look ,  on Sydney Carton ,  it 
would have been seen to be the same influence exactly .  

Before that unjust Tribunal ,  there was little or no order 
of procedure ,  ensuring to any accused person any reasonable 
hearing .  There could have been no such Eevolution ,  if all 
laws ,  forms ,  and ceremonies ,  had not first been so monstrously 
abused ,  that the suicidal vengeance of the Eevolution was to 
scatter them all to the winds .  

Every eye was turned to the jury .  The same deter -  
mined patriots and good republicans as yesterday and the 
day before ,  and to - morrow and the day after .  Eager and 
prominent among them ,  one man with a craving face ,  and 
his fingers perpetually hovering about his lips ,  whose appear -  
ance gave great satisfaction to the spectators .  A life - thirsting ,  
cannibal - looking ,  bloody - minded juryman ,  the Jacques Three 
of St .  Antoine .  The whole jury ,  as a jury of dogs empan -  
nelled to try the deer .  

Every eye then turned to the five judges and the public 
prosecutor .  No favourable leaning in that quarter to - day .  
A fell ,  uncompromising ,  murderous business - meaning there .  
Every eye then sought some other eye in the crowd ,  and 
gleamed at it approvingly  ;  and heads nodded at one another ,  
before bending forward with a strained attention .  

Charles Evremonde ,  called Darnay .  Eeleased yesterday .  
Ee - accused and retaken yesterday .  Indictment delivered to 
him last night ,  Suspected and Denounced enemy of the 
Eepublic ,  Aristocrat ,  one of a family of tyrants ,  one of a 
race proscribed ,  for that they had used their abolished privi -  
leges to the infamous oppression of the people .  Charles 
Evremonde ,  called Darnay ,  in right of such proscription ,  
absolutely Dead in Law .  



AGAIN BEFORE THE TRIBUNAL 353 

To this effect ,  in as few or fewer words ,  the Public 
Prosecutor .  

The President asked ,  was the Accused openly denounced 
or secretly ? 

 " Openly ,  President .  "  

 "  By whom ?  "  

 " Three voices .  Ernest Defarge ,  wine -  vendor of St .  An -  
toine .  "  

 " Good .  "  

 " Therese Defarge ,  his wife .  "  

 " Good .  "  

 "  Alexandre Manette ,  physician .  

A great uproar took place in the court ,  and in the midst 
of it .  Doctor Manette was seen ,  pale and trembling ,  standing 
where he had been seated .  

 " President ,  I indignantly protest to you that this is a 
forgery and a fraud .  You know the accused to be the 
husband of my daughter .  My daughter ,  and those dear to 
her ,  are far dearer to me than my life .  Who and where is 
the false conspirator who says that I denounce the husband 
of my child  !   "  

 "  Citizen Manette ,  be tranquil .  To fail in submission to 
the authority of the Tribunal would be to put yourself out 
of Law .  As to what is dearer to you than life ,  nothing can 
be so dear to a good citizen as the Republic .  "  

Loud acclamations hailed this rebuke .  The President rang 
his bell ,  and with warmth resumed .  

 "  If the Republic should demand of you the sacrifice of 
your child herself ,  you would have no duty but to sacrifice 
her .  Listen to what is to follow .  In the meanwhile ,  be 
silent  !   "  

Frantic acclamations were again raised .  Doctor Manette 
sat down ,  with his eyes looking around ,  and his lips trem -  
bling  ;  his daughter drew closer to him .  The craving man 
on the jury rubbed his hands together ,  and restored the usual 
hand to his mouth .  

Defarge was produced ,  when the court was quiet enough 
to admit of his being heard ,  and rapidly expounded the story 
of the imprisonment ,  and of his having been a mere boy in 
the Doctors service ,  and of the release ,  and of the state of 
the prisoner when released and delivered to him .  This short 
examination followed ,  for the court was quick with its 
work .  



354 A TALE OF TWO CITIES 

 " You did good service at the taking of the Bastille ,  
citizen ?  "  

 "  I believe so .  

Here ,  an excited woman screeched from the crowd :  " You 
were one of the best patriots there .  Why not say so ? You 
were a cannonier that day there ,  and you were among the 
first to enter the accursed fortress when it fell .  Patriots ,  I 
speak the truth  !   "  

It was The Vengeance who ,  amidst the warm commenda -  
tions of the audience ,  thus assisted the proceedings .  The 
President rang his bell  ;  but .  The Vengeance ,  warming with 
encouragement ,  shrieked ,   "  I defy that bell  !   "  wherein she 
was likewise much commended .  

 " Inform the Tribunal of what you did that day within 
the Bastille ,  citizen .  "  

 " I knew ,  "  said Defarge ,  looking down at his wife ,  who 
stood at the bottom of the steps on which he was raised ,  
looking steadily up at him  ;  I knew that this prisoner ,  of 
whom I speak ,  had been confined in a cell known as One 
Hundred and Five ,  North Tower .  I knew it from himself .  
He knew himself by no other name than One Hundred and 
Five ,  North Tower ,  when he made shoes under my care .  As 
I serve my gun that day ,  I resolve ,  when the place shall 
fall ,  to examine that cell .  It falls .  I mount to the cell ,  
with a fellow - citizen who is one of the Jury ,  directed by a 
gaoler .  I examine it ,  very closely .  In a hole in the chimney ,  
where a stone has been worked out and replaced ,  I find a 
written paper .  This is that written paper .  I have made it 
my business to examine some specimens of the writing of 
Doctor Manette .  This is the writing of Doctor Manette .  I 
confide this paper ,  in the writing of Doctor Manette ,  to the 
hands of the President .   "  

 "  Let it be read .  "  

In a dead silence and stillness — the prisoner under trial 
looking lovingly at his wife ,  his wife only looking from him 
to look with solicitude at her father ,  Doctor Manette keep -  
ing his eyes fixed on the reader ,  Madame Defarge never taking 
hers from the prisoner ,  Defarge never taking his from his 
feasting wife ,  and all the other eyes there intent upon the 
Doctor ,  who saw none of them — the paper was read ,  as 
follows .  



CHAPTER X 

THE SUBSTANCE OF THE SHADOW 

 " I ,  Alexandre Manette ,  unfortunate physician ,  native of 
Beauvais ,  and afterwards resident in Paris ,  write this melan -  
choly paper in my doleful cell in the Bastille ,  during the last 
month of the year 1767 .  I write it at stolen intervals ,  under 
every difficulty .  I design to secrete it in the wall of the 
chimney ,  where I have slowly and laboriously made a place 
of concealment for it .  Some pitying hand may find it there ,  
when I and my sorrows are dust .  

 "  These words are formed by the rusty iron point with 
which I write with difficulty in scrapings of soot and charcoal 
from the chimney ,  mixed with blood ,  in the last month of 
the tenth year of my captivity .  Hope has quite departed 
from my breast .  I know from terrible warnings I have 
noted in myself that my reason will not long remain unim -  
paired ,  but I solemnly declare that I am at this time in the 
possession of my right mind — that my memory is exact and 
circumstantial — and that I write the truth as I shall answer 
for these my last recorded words ,  whether they be ever read 
by men or not .  at the Eternal Judgment - seat .  

 "  One cloudy moonlight night ,  in the third week of 
December  ( I think the twenty - second of the month )  in the 
year 1757 ,  I was walking on a retired part of the quay by 
the Seine for the refreshment of the frosty air ,  at an hours 
distance from my place of residence in the Street of the 
School of Medicine ,  when a carriage came along behind me ,  
driven very fast .  As I stood aside to let that carriage pass ,  
apprehensive that it might otherwise run me down ,  a head 
was put out at the window ,  and a voice called to the driver 
to stop .  

 "  The carriage stopped as soon as the driver could rein in 
his horses ,  and the same voice called to me by my name .  I 
answered .  The carriage was then so far in advance of me 
that two gentlemen had time to open the door and alight 



35$ A TALE OF TWO CITIES 

before I came up with it .  I observed that they were both 
wrapped in cloaks ,  and appeared to conceal themselves .  As 
they stood side by side near the carriage door ,  I also observed 
that they both looked of about niy own age ,  or rather 
younger ,  and that they were greatly alike ,  in stature ,  manner ,  
voice ,  and  ( as far as I could see )  face too .  

 "   You are Doctor Manette ?  said one .  

 "   I am .  

 "  Doctor Manette ,  formerly of Beauvais ,  said the other  ;  
the young physician ,  originally an expert surgeon ,  who 
within the last year or two has made a rising reputation in 
Paris ?  

*•  Gentlemen ,  I returned .   I am that Doctor Manette of 
whom you speak so graciously .  

 "   We have been to your residence ,  said the first ,   and not 
being so fortunate as to find you there ,  and being informed 
that you were probably walking in this direction ,  we fol -  
lowed ,  in the hope of overtaking you .  Will you please to 
enter the carriage ?  

 "  The manner of both was imperious ,  and they both 
moved ,  as these words were spoken ,  so as to place me 
between themselves and the carriage door .  They were 
armed .  I was not .  

 "   Gentlemen ,   said I ,   pardon me  ;  but I usually inquire 
who does me the honour to seek my assistance ,  and what is 
the nature of the case to which I am summoned .  

 "  The reply to this was made by him who had spoken 
second .   Doctor ,  your clients are people of condition .  As 
to the nature of the case ,  our confidence in your skill assures 
us that you will ascertain it for yourself better than we can 
describe it .  Enough .  Will you please to enter the carriage ?  

 "  I could do nothing but comply ,  and I entered it in 
silence .  They both entered after me— the last springing in .  
after putting up the steps .  The carriage turned about ,  and 
drove on at its former speed .  

 "  I repeat this conversation exactly as it occurred .  I have 
no doubt that it is ,  word for word ,  the same .  I describe 
everything exactly as it took place ,  constraining my mind 
not to wander from the task .  Where I make the broken 
marks that follow here ,  I leave off for the time ,  and put my 
paper in its hiding - place .  * * * * 

 "  The carriage left the streets behind ,  passed the North 
Barrier ,  and emerged upon the country road .  At two - thirds 




IN THE BASTILLE 



THE BASTILLE PRISONERS MANUSCRIPT 359 

of a league from the Barrier — I did not estimate the distance 
at that time ,  but afterwards when I traversed it— it struck 
out of the main avenue ,  and presently stopped at a solitary 
house .  We all three alighted ,  and walked ,  by a damp soft 
footpath in a garden where a neglected fountain had over -  
flowed ,  to the door of the house .  It was not opened imme -  
diately ,  in answer to the ringing of the bell ,  and one of my 
two conductors struck the man who opened it ,  with his heavy 
riding - glove ,  across the face .  

 "  There was nothing in this action to attract my particular 
attention ,  for I had seen common people struck more com -  
monly than dogs .  But ,  the other of the two ,  being angry 
likewise ,  struck the man in like manner with his arm  ;  the 
look and bearing of the brothers were then so exactly alike ,  
that I then first perceived them to be twin brothers .  

 "  From the time of our alighting at the outer gate  ( which 
we found locked ,  and which one of the brothers had opened 
to admit us ,  and had re - locked )  ,  I had heard cries proceeding 
from an upper chamber .  I was conducted to this chamber 
straight ,  the cries growing louder as we ascended the stairs ,  
and I found a patient in a high fever of the brain ,  lying on 
a bed .  

 "  The patient was a woman of great beauty ,  and young  ;  
assuredly not much past twenty .  Her hair was torn and 
ragged ,  and her arms were bound to her sides with sashes 
and handkerchiefs .  I noticed that these bonds were all 
portions of a gentlemans dress .  On one of them ,  which was 
a fringed scarf for a dress of ceremony ,  I saw the armorial 
bearings of a Noble ,  and the letter E .  

 "  I saw this ,  within the first minute of my contemplation 
of the patient  ;  for ,  in her restless strivings she had turned 
over on her face on the edge of the bed ,  had drawn the end 
of the scai*f into her mouth ,  and was in danger of suffocation .  
My first act was to put out my hand to relieve her breath -  
ing  ;  and in moving the scarf aside ,  the embroidery in the 
corner caught my sight .  

I turned her gently over ,  placed my hands upon her 
breast to calm her and keep her down ,  and looked into her 
face .  Her eyes were dilated and wild ,  and she constantly 
uttered piercing shrieks ,  and repeated the words ,  My hus -  
band ,  my father ,  and my brother  !   and then counted up to 
twelve ,  and said ,   Hush  !   For an instant ,  and no more ,  she 
would pause to listen ,  and then the piercing shrieks would 



360 A TALE OF TWO CITIES 

begin again ,  and she would repeat the cry ,  My husband ,  
my father ,  and my brother  !   and would count up to twelve ,  
and say  Hush  !   There was no variation in the order ,  
or the manner .  There was no cessation ,  but the regular 
moments pause ,  in the utterance of these sounds .  

4i  How long ,  I asked ,   has this lasted ?  

 "  To distinguish the brothers ,  I will call them the elder 
and the younger  ;  by the elder ,  I mean him who exercised 
the most authority .  It was the elder who replied ,   Since 
about this hour last night .  

 "   She has a husband ,  a father ,  and a brother?  

 " A brother .  

 "  I do not address her brother? 

 "  He answered with great contempt ,   No .  

 "   She has some recent association with the number 
twelve ?  

 " The younger brother impatiently rejoined ,  With twelve 
oclock ?  

 "   See ,  gentlemen ,  said I ,  still keeping my hands upon her 
breast ,   how useless I am ,  as you have brought me  !  If I 
had known what I was coming to see ,  I could have come 
provided .  As it is ,  time must be lost .  There are no medi -  
cines to be obtained in this lonely place .  

 "  The elder brother looked to the younger ,  who said 
haughtily ,   There is a case of medicines here  ;   and brought 
it from a closet ,  and put it on the table .  * * * 

 " I opened some of the bottles ,  smelt them ,  and put the 
stoppers to my lips .  If I had wanted to use anything save 
narcotic medicines that were poisons in themselves ,  I would 
not have administered any of those .  

 "   Do you doubt them ?  asked the younger brother .  

 " You see ,  monsieur ,  I am going to use them ,  I replied ,  
and said no more .  

 "  I made the patient swallow ,  with great difficulty ,  and 
after many efforts ,  the dose that I desired to give .  As I 
intended to repeat it after a while ,  and as it was necessaiy to 
watch its influence ,  I then sat down by the side of the bed .  
There was a timid and suppressed woman in attendance  ( wife 
of the man down - stairs )  ,  who had retreated into a corner .  
The house was damp and decayed ,  indifferently furnished — 
evidently ,  recently occupied and temporarily used .  Some 
thick old hangings had been nailed up before the windows ,  
to deaden the sound of the shrieks .  They continued to 



THE FEVERED PATIENT 361 

be uttered in their regular succession ,  with the cry ,   My 
husband ,  my father ,  and my brother  !   the counting up to 
twelve ,  and  Hush  !   The frenzy was so violent ,  that I had 
not unfastened the bandages restraining the arms ,  but ,  I had 
looked to them ,  to see that they were not painful .  The 
only spark of encouragement in the case ,  was ,  that my hand 
upon the sufferers breast had this much soothing influence ,  
that for minutes at a time it trancpiillised the figure .  It 
had no effect upon the cries : no pendulum could be more 
regular .  

 "  For the reason that my hand had this effect  ( I assume )  ,  
I had sat by the side of the bed for half an hour ,  with the 
two brothers looking on ,  before the elder said : 

 " There is another patient .  

 "  I was startled and asked ,   Is it a pressing case ?  

 "   You had better see ,  he carelessly answered  ;  and took 
up a light .  * * * * 

• The other patient lay in a back room across a second 
staircase ,  which was a species of loft over a stable .  There 
was a low plastered ceiling to a part of it  ;  the rest was open ,  
to the ridge of the tiled roof ,  and there were beams across .  
Hay and straw were stored in that portion of the place ,  
fagots for firing ,  and a heap of apples in sand .  I had to 
pass through that part ,  to get at the other .  My memory is 
circumstantial and unshaken .  I try it with these details ,  
and I see them all ,  in this my cell in the Bastille ,  near the 
close of the tenth year of my captivity ,  as I saw them all 
that night .  

 "  On some hay on the ground ,  with a cushion thrown 
under his head ,  lay a handsome peasant boy — a boy of not 
more than seventeen at the most .  He lay on his back ,  with 
his teeth set ,  his right hand clenched on his breast ,  and his 
glaring eyes looking straight upward .  I could not see where 
his wound was ,  as I kneeled on one knee over him  ;  but ,  I 
could see that he was dying of a wound from a sharp point .  

 "   I am a doctor ,  my poor fellow ,  said I .  * Let me 
examine it .  

 "   I do not want it examined ,  he answered  ;   let it be .  

 "  It was under his hand ,  and I soothed him to let me move 
his hand away .  The wound was a sword - thrust ,  received from 
twenty to twenty - four hours before ,  but no skill could have 
saved him if it had been looked to without delay .  He was 
then dying fast .  As I turned my eyes to the elder brother ,  
1 .  m 3 



362 A TALE OF TWO CITIES 

I saw him looking down at this handsome boy whose life 
was ebbing out .  as if he were a wounded bird ,  or hare ,  or 
rabbit  ;  not at all as if he were a fellow -  creature .  

 "   How has this been done ,  monsieur ?  said I .  

 "   A crazed young common dog  !  A serf  !  Forced my 
brother to draw upon him ,  and has fallen by my brothers 
sword — like a gentleman .  

• There was no touch of pity ,  sorrow ,  or kindred humanity ,  
in this answer .  The speaker seemed to acknowledge that 
it was inconvenient to have that different order of creature 
dying there ,  and that it would have been better if he had 
died in the usual obscure routine of his vermin kind .  He 
was quite incapable of any compassionate feeling about the 
boy ,  or about his fate .  

 "  The boys eyes had slowly moved to him as he had spoken ,  
and they now slowly moved to me .  

 "   Doctor ,  they are very proud ,  these Nobles  ;  but we 
common dogs are proud too ,  sometimes .  They plunder us ,  
outrage us ,  beat us ,  kill us  ;  but we have a little pride left ,  
sometimes .  She have you seen her ,  Doctor ?  

 "  The shrieks and the cries were audible there ,  though 
subdued by the distance .  He referred to them ,  as if she 
were lying in our presence .  

 "  I said ,   I have seen her .  

 "   She is my sister ,  Doctor .  They have had their shame -  
ful rights ,  these Nobles ,  in the modesty and virtue of our 
sisters ,  many years ,  but we have had good girls among us .  
I know it ,  and have heard my father say so .  She was 
a good girl .  She was betrothed to a good young man ,  too : 
a tenant of his .  We were all tenants of his — that mans 
who stands there .  The other is his brother ,  the worst of 
a bad race .  

•• It was with the greatest difficulty that the boy gathered 
bodily force to speak  ;  but ,  his spirit spoke with a dreadful 
emphasis .  

 "   We were so robbed by that man who stands there ,  as 
all we common dogs are by those superior Beings — taxed 
by him without mercy ,  obliged to work for him without pay ,  
obliged to grind our corn at his mill ,  obliged to feed scores 
of his tame birds on our wretched crops ,  and forbidden for 
our lives to keep a single tame bird of our own .  pillaged and 
plundered to that degree that when we chanced to have a bit 
of meat ,  we ate it in fear ,  with the door barred and the 



THE DYING PEASANT BOY 363 

shutters closed ,  that his people should not see it and take 
it from us — I say .  we were so robbed ,  and hunted ,  and were 
made so poor ,  that our father told us it was a dreadful 
thing to bring a child into the world ,  and that what we 
should most pray for ,  was ,  that our women might be barren 
and our miserable race die out  !   

 " I had never before seen the sense of being oppressed ,  
bursting forth like a fire .  I had supposed that it must be 
latent in the people somewhere  ;  but ,  I had never seen it 
break out ,  until I saw it in the dying boy .  

•• • Nevertheless .  Doctor ,  my sister married .  He was ailing 
at that time ,  poor fellow ,  and she married her lover ,  that she 
might tend and comfort him in our cottage — our dog - hut ,  
as that man would call it .  She had not been married many 
weeks ,  when that mans brother saw her and admired her ,  
and asked that man to lend her to him — for what are 
husbands among us  !  He was willing enough ,  but my sister 
was good and virtuous ,  and hated his brother with a hatred 
as strong as mine .  What did the two then ,  to persuade 
her husband to use his influence with her ,  to make her 
willing ?  

 " The boys eyes ,  which had been fixed 011 mine ,  slowly 
turned to the looker - on ,  and I saw in the two faces that all 
he said was true .  The two opposing kinds of pride con -  
fronting one another ,  I can see ,  even in this Bastille  ;  the 
gentlemans all negligent indifference  ;  the peasants ,  all 
trodden - down sentiment ,  and passionate revenge .  

 "   You know ,  Doctor ,  that it is among the Eights of 
these Nobles to harness us common clogs to carts ,  and drive 
us .  They so harnessed him and drove him .  You know that 
it is among their Rights to keep us in their grounds all 
night ,  quieting the frogs ,  in order that their noble sleep 
may not be disturbed .  They kept him out in the unwhole -  
some mists at night ,  and ordered him back into his harness 
in the day .  But he was not persuaded .  No  !  Taken out 
of harness one day at noon ,  to feed — if he could find food — 
he sobbed twelve times ,  once for every stroke of the bell ,  
and died on her bosom .  

 "  Nothing human could have held life in the boy but his 
determination to tell all his wrong .  He forced back the 
gathering shadows of death ,  as he forced his clenched right 
hand to remain clenched ,  and to cover his wound .  

 "   Then ,  with that mans permission and even with his 



364 A TALE OF TWO CITIES 

aid ,  his brother took her away  ;  in spite of what I know she 
must have told his brother — and what that is ,  will not be 
long unknown to you ,  Doctor ,  if it is now — his brother 
took her away — for his pleasure and diversion ,  for a little 
while .  I saw her pass me on the road .  When I took the 
tidings home ,  our fathers heart burst  ;  he never spoke one 
of the words that filled it .  I took my young sister  ( for 
I have another )  to a place beyond the reach of this man ,  
and where ,  at least ,  she will never be Ms vassal .  Then ,  
I tracked the brother here ,  and last night climbed in — 
a common dog ,  but sword in hand .  — Where is the loft 
window ? It was somewhere here ?  

 " The room was darkening to his sight ;  the world was 
narrowing around him .  I glanced about me ,  and saw that 
the hay and straw were trampled over the floor ,  as if there 
had been a struggle .  

 "   She heard me ,  and ran in .  I told her not to come near 
us till he was dead .  He came in and first tossed me some 
pieces of money  ;  then struck at me with a whip .  But 
I ,  though a common dog ,  so struck at him as to make him 
draw .  Let him break into as many pieces as he will ,  the 
sword that he stained with my common blood  ;  he drew to 
defend himself — thrust at me with all his skill for his life .  

 " My glance had fallen ,  but a few moments before ,  on the 
fragments of a broken sword ,  lying among the hay .  That 
weapon was a gentlemans .  In another place ,  lay an old 
sword that seemed to have been a soldiers .  

 "   Now ,  lift me up ,  Doctor  ;  lift me up .  Where is he ?  
 "  He is not here ,  I said ,  supporting the boy ,  and think -  
ing that he referred to the brother .  

 "   He  !  Proud as these nobles are ,  he is afraid to see me .  
Where is the man who was here? Turn my face to him .  

 "  I did so ,  raising the boys head against my knee .  But ,  
invested for the moment with extraordinary power ,  he raised 
himself completely : obliging me to rise too ,  or I could not 
have still supported him .  

 " Marquis ,  said the boy ,  turned to him with his eyes 
opened wide ,  and his right hand raised ,   in the days when 
all these things are to be answered for ,  I summon you and 
yours ,  to the last of your bad race ,  to answer for them .  
I mark this cross of blood upon j r ou ,  as a sign that I do it .  
In the days when all these things are to be answered for ,  
I summon your brother ,  the worst of the bad race ,  to answer 



THE DYING PEASANT GIRL 365 

for them separately .  I mark this cross of blood upon him ,  
as a sign that I do it .  

 " Twice ,  he put his hand to the wound in his breast ,  and 
with his forefinger drew a cross in the air .  He stood for an 
instant with the finger yet raised ,  and ,  as it dropped ,  he 
dropped with it ,  and I laid him down dead .  * 

 "  When I returned to the bedside of the young woman .  
I found her raving in precisely the same order and con -  
tinuity .  I knew that this might last for many hours ,  and 
that it would probably end in the silence of the grave .  

 "  I repeated the medicines I had given her ,  and I sat at 
the side of the bed until the night was far advanced .  She 
never abated the piercing equality of her shrieks ,  never 
stumbled in the distinctness or the order of her words .  
They were always  My husband ,  my father ,  and my brother  !  
One ,  two ,  three ,  four ,  five ,  six ,  seven ,  eight ,  nine ,  ten ,  eleven ,  
twelve .  Hush  !   

 " This lasted twenty - six hours from the time when I first 
saw her .  I had come and gone twice ,  and was again sitting 
by her ,  when she began to falter .  I did what little could be 
done to assist that opportunity ,  and by - and - by she sank into 
a lethargy ,  and lay like the dead .  

 "  It was as if the wind and rain had lulled at last ,  after 
a long and fearful storm .  I released her arms ,  and called 
the woman to assist me to compose her figure and the dress 
she had torn .  It was then that I knew her condition to be 
that of one in whom the first expectations of being a mother 
have arisen  ;  and it was then that I lost the little hope I had 
had of her .  

u  Is she dead ?  asked the Marquis ,  whom I will still 
describe as the elder brother ,  coming booted into the room 
from his horse .  

 "   Not dead ,  said I  ;  but like to die .  

 "  What strength there is in these common bodies  !   he 
said ,  looking down at her with some curiosity .  

 " There is prodigious strength ,  I answered him ,  in 
sorrow and despair .  "  

 "  He first laughed at my words ,  and then frowned at them .  
He moved a chair with his foot near to mine ,  ordered the 
woman away ,  and said in a subdued voice ,  

 " Doctor ,  finding my brother in this difficulty with these 
hinds ,  I recommended that your aid should be invited .  
Your reputation is high ,  and ,  as a young man with your 



366 A TALE OF TWO CITIES 

fortune to make ,  you are probably mindful of your interest .  
The things that you see here ,  are things to be seen ,  and not 
spoken of .  

 "  I listened to the patients breathing ,  and avoided 
answering .  

•  Do you honour me with your attention .  Doctor ?  

 " Monsieur ,  said I ,  in my profession ,  the communica -  
tions of patients are always received in confidence .  I was 
guarded in my answer ,  for I was troubled in my mind with 
what I had heard and seen .  

 " Her breathing was so difficult to trace ,  that I carefully 
tried the pulse and the heart .  There was life ,  and no more .  
Looking round as I resumed my seat ,  I found both the 
brothers intent upon me .  * * 

 " I write with so much difficulty ,  the cold is so severe .  
I am so fearful of being detected and consigned to an under -  
ground cell and total darkness ,  that I must abridge this 
narrative .  There is no confusion or failure in my memory  ;  
it can recall ,  and could detail ,  every word that was ever 
spoken between me and those brothers .  

 " She lingered for a week .  Towards the last ,  I could 
understand some few syllables that she said to me ,  by placing 
my ear close to her lips .  She asked me where she was ,  and 
I told her  ;  who I was ,  and I told her .  It was in vain that 
I asked her for her family name .  She faintly shook her 
head upon the pillow ,  and kept her secret ,  as the boy had 
done .  

 "  I had no opportunity of asking her any question ,  until 
I had told the brothers she was sinking fast ,  and could not 
live another day .  Until then ,  though no one was ever pre -  
sented to her consciousness save the woman and myself ,  one 
or other of them had always jealously sat behind the curtain 
at the head of the bed when I was there .  But when it 
came to that ,  they seemed careless what communication 
I might hold with her  ;  as if — the thought passed through 
my mind — I were dying too .  

 "  I always observed that their pride bitterly resented the 
younger brothers  ( as I call him )  having crossed swords with 
a peasant ,  and that peasant a boy .  The only consideration 
that appeared to affect the mind of either of them was the 
consideration that this was highly degrading to the family ,  
and was ridiculous .  As often as I caught the younger 
brothers eyes ,  their expression reminded me that lie disliked 



A ROULEAU OF GOLD 367 

me deeply ,  for knowing what I knew from the boy .  He was 
smoother and more polite to me than the elder  ;  but I saw 
this .  I also saw that I was an incumbrance in the mind of 
the elder ,  too .  

 "  My patient died ,  two hours before midnight — at a time ,  
by my watch ,  answering almost to the minute when I had 
first seen her .  I was alone with her ,  when her forlorn young 
head drooped gently on one side ,  and all her earthly wrongs 
and sorrows ended .  

 " The brothers were waiting in a room down - stairs ,  im -  
patient to ride away .  I had heard them ,  alone at the bed -  
side ,  striking their boots with their riding - whips ,  and 
loitering up and clown .  

 "   At last she is dead ?  said the elder ,  when I went in .  

 "   She is dead ,  said I .  

 "   I congratulate you ,  my brother ,  were his words as he 
turned round .  

 "  He had before offered me money ,  which I had postponed 
taking .  He now gave me a rouleau of gold .  I took it from 
his hand ,  but laid it on the table .  I had considered the 
question ,  and had resolved to accept nothing .  

 "   Pray excuse me ,  said I .   Under the circumstances ,  no .  

 "  They exchanged looks ,  but bent their heads to me as 
I bent mine to them ,  and we parted without another word 
on either side .  * * * * 

 "  I am weary ,  weary ,  weary — worn down by misery .  
I cannot read what I have written with this gaunt hand .  

 "  Early in the morning ,  the rouleau of gold was left at 
my door in a little box ,  with my name on the outside .  From 
the first ,  I had anxiously considered what I ought to do .  
I decided ,  that day ,  to write privately to the Minister ,  
stating the nature of the two cases to which I had been 
summoned ,  and the place to which I had gone : in effect ,  
stating all the circumstances .  I knew what Court influence 
was ,  and what the immunities of tho Nobles were ,  and 
I expected that the matter would never be heard of  ;  but ,  
I wished to relieve my own mind .  I had kept the matter 
a profound secret ,  even from my wife  ;  and this ,  too ,  
I resolved to state in my letter .  I had no apprehension 
whatever of my real danger  ;  but I was conscious that there 
might be danger for others ,  if others were compromised by 
possessing the knowledge that I possessed .  

•I was much engaged that day ,  and could not complete 



368 A TALE OF TWO CITIES 

my letter that night .  I rose long before my usual time next 
morning to finish it .  It was the last day of the year .  The 
letter was lying before me just completed ,  when I was told 
that a lady waited ,  who wished to see me .  * * * * 

 "  I am growing more and more unequal to the task I have 
set myself .  It is so cold ,  so dark ,  my senses are so benumbed ,  
and the gloom upon me is so dreadful .  

The lady was young ,  engaging ,  and handsome ,  but not 
marked for long life .  She was in great agitation .  She 
presented herself to me as the wife of the Marquis St .  Evre -  
monde .  I connected the title by which the boy had addressed 
the elder brother ,  with the initial letter embroidered on the 
scarf ,  and had no difficulty in arriving at the conclusion that 
I had seen that nobleman very lately .  

 "  My memory is still accurate ,  but I cannot write the 
woids of our conversation .  I suspect that I am watched 
more closely than I was ,  and I know not at what times 
I may be watched .  She had in part suspected ,  and in part 
discovered ,  the main facts of the cruel story ,  of her husbands 
share in it ,  and my being resorted to .  She did not know 
that the girl was dead .  Her hope had been ,  she said in 
great distress ,  to show her ,  in secret ,  a womans sympathy .  
Her hope had been to avert the wrath of Heaven from a 
House that had long been hateful to the suffering many .  

 "  She had reasons for believing that there was a young 
sister living ,  and her greatest desire was ,  to help that sister .  
I could tell her nothing but that there was such a sister  ;  
beyond that ,  I knew nothing .  Her inducement to come 
to me ,  relying on my confidence ,  had been the hope that 
I coidd tell her the name and place of abode .  Whereas ,  to 
this wretched hour I am ignorant of both .  * 

  These scraps of paper fail me .  One was taken from me ,  
with a warning ,  yesterday .  I must finish my record to - day .  

 " She was a good ,  compassionate lady ,  and not happy in 
her marriage .  How could she be  !  The brother distrusted 
and disliked her ,  and his influence was all opposed to her  ;  
she stood in dread of him ,  and in dread of her husband 
too .  When I handed her down to the door ,  there was 
a child ,  a pretty boy from two to three years old ,  in her 
carriage .  

 "   For his sake ,  Doctor ,  she said ,  pointing to him in tears ,  
 I would do all I can to make what poor amends I can .  He 
will never prosper in his inheritance otherwise .  I have a 



BROUGHT TO A LIVING GRAVE 369 

presentiment that if no other innocent atonement is made 
for this ,  it will one day be required of him .  What I have 
left to call my own — it is little beyond the worth of a few 
jewels — I will make it the first charge of his life to bestow ,  
with the compassion and lamenting of his dead mother ,  on 
this injured family ,  if the sister can be discovered .  

 "  She kissed the boy ,  and said ,  caressing him ,   It is for 
thine own dear sake .  Thou wilt be faithful ,  little Charles ?  
The child answered her bravely ,  ■ Yes  !   I kissed her hand ,  
and she took him in her arms ,  and went away caressing him .  
I never saw her more .  

 "  As she had mentioned her husbands name in the faith 
that I knew it ,  I added no mention of it to my letter .  I 
sealed my letter ,  and ,  not trusting it out of my own hands ,  
delivered it myself that day .  

 "  That night ,  the last night of the year ,  towards nine 
oclock ,  a man in a black dress rang at my gate ,  demanded to 
see me ,  and softly followed my servant ,  Ernest Defarge ,  a 
youth ,  up - stairs .  When my servant came into the room 
where I sat with my wife — O my wife ,  beloved of my heart  !  
My fair young English wife  !  — we saw the man ,  who was 
supposed to be at the gate ,  standing silent behind him .  

 "  An urgent case in the Eue St .  Honore ,  he said .  It 
would not detain me ,  he had a coach in waiting .  

 " It brought me here ,  it brought me to my grave .  When 
I was clear of the house ,  a black muffler was drawn tightly 
over my mouth from behind ,  and my arms were pinioned .  
The two brothers crossed the road from a dark corner ,  and 
identified me with a single gesture .  The Marquis took 
from his pocket the letter I had written ,  showed it me ,  burnt 
it in the light of a lantern that was held ,  and extinguished 
the ashes with his foot .  Not a word was spoken .  I was 
brought here ,  I was brought to my living grave .  

 " If it had pleased God to put it in the hard heart of 
either of the brothers ,  in all these frightful years ,  to grant 
me any tidings of my dearest wife — so much as to let me 
know by a word whether alive or dead — I might have 
thought that He had not quite abandoned them .  But ,  now 
I believe that the mark of the red cross is fatal to them ,  and 
that they have no part in His mercies .  And them and their 
descendants ,  to the last of their race ,  I ,  Alexandre Manette ,  
unhappy prisoner ,  do this last night of the year 1767 ,  in my 
unbearable agony ,  denounce to the times when all these 



370 A TALE OF TWO CITIES 

things shall be answered for .  I denounce them to Heaven 
and to earth .  "  

A terrible sound arose when the reading of this document 
was done .  A sound of craving and eagerness that had 
nothing articulate in it but blood .  The narrative called up 
the most revengeful passions of the time ,  and there was not 
a head in the nation but must have dropped before it .  

Little need ,  in presence of that tribunal and that auditory ,  
to show how the Defarges had not made the paper public ,  
with the other captured Bastille memorials borne in proces -  
sion ,  and had kept it ,  biding their time .  Little need to 
show that this detested family name had long been anathe -  
matised by Saint Antoine ,  and was wrought into the fatal 
register .  The man never trod ground whose virtues and 
services would have sustained him in that place that day ,  
against such denunciation .  

And all the worse for the doomed man ,  that the denouncer 
was a well - known citizen ,  his own attached friend ,  the father 
of his wife .  One of the frenzied aspirations of the populace 
was ,  for imitations of the questionable public virtues of anti -  
quity ,  and for sacrifices and self - immolations on the peoples 
altar .  Therefore when the President said  ( else had his own 
head quivered on his shoulders )  ,  that the good physician of 
the Republic would deserve better still of the Republic by 
rooting out an obnoxious family of Aristocrats ,  and would 
doubtless feel a sacred glow and joy in making his daughter 
a widow and her child an orphan ,  there was wild excitement ,  
patriotic fervour ,  not a touch of human sympathy .  

 "  Much influence around him .  has that Doctor ? "  murmured 
Madame Defarge ,  smiling to The Vengeance .   " Save him 
now ,  my Doctor ,  save him  !   "  

At every jurymans vote ,  there was a roar .  Another and 
another .  Roar and roar .  

Unanimously voted .  At heart and by descent an Aristo -  
crat ,  an enemy of the Republic ,  a notorious oppressor of the 
People .  Back to the Conciergerie ,  and Death within four -  
and - twenty hours  !  



CHAPTER XI 

DUSK 

The wretched wife of the innocent man thus doomed to die ,  
fell under the sentence ,  as if she had been mortally stricken .  
But ,  she uttered no sound  ;  and so strong was the voice 
within her ,  representing that it was she of all the world who 
must uphold him in his misery and not augment it ,  that it 
quickly raised her ,  even from that shock .  

The judges having to take part in a public demonstration 
out of doors ,  the tribunal adjourned .  The quick noise and 
movement of the courts emptying itself by many passages 
had not ceased ,  when Lucie stood stretching out her arms 
towards her husband ,  with nothing in her face but love and 
consolation .  

• If I might touch him  !  If I might embrace him once  !  
O ,  good citizens ,  if you would have so much compassion 
for us  !   "  

There was but a gaoler left ,  along with two of the four 
men who had taken him last night ,  and Barsad .  The people 
had all poured out to the show in the streets .  Barsad pro -  
posed to the rest ,   "  Let her embrace him then  ;  it is but a 
moment .   "  It was silently acquiesced in ,  and they passed her 
over the seats in the hall to a raised place ,  where he ,  by 
leaning over the dock ,  could fold her in his arms .  

 "  Farewell ,  dear darling of my soul .  My parting blessing 
on my love .  We shall meet again ,  where the weaiy are at 
rest  !   "  

They were her husbands words ,  as he held her to his 
bosom .  

 "  I can bear it ,  dear Charles .  I am supported from above : 
dont suffer for me .  A parting blessing for our child .  "  

 "  I send it to her by you .  1 kiss her by you .  I say fare -  
well to her by you .  "  

 "  My husband .  No  !  A moment  !   "  He was tearing him -  
self apart from her .   " We shall not be separated long .  I 



372 A TALE OF TWO CITIES 

feel that this will break my heart by - and - by  ;  but I will do 
my duty while I can ,  and when I leave her ,  God will raise 
up friends for her ,  as He did for me .  "  

Her father had followed her ,  and would have fallen on his 
knees to both of them ,  but that Darnay put out a hand and 
seized him ,  crying : 

 " No ,  no  !  What have you done ,  what have you done ,  that 
you should kneel to us  !  We know now ,  what a struggle you 
made of old .  We know now ,  what you underwent when you 
suspected my descent ,  and when you knew it .  We know now ,  
the natural antipathy you strove against ,  and conquered ,  for 
her dear sake .  We thank you with all our hearts ,  and all 
our love and duty .  Heaven be with you  !   "  

Her fathers only answer was to draw his hands through 
his white hair ,  and wring them with a shriek of anguish .  

 "  It could not be otherwise ,  "  said the prisoner .   "  All things 
have worked together as they have fallen out .  It was the 
always -  vain endeavour to discharge my poor mothers trust 
that first brought my fatal presence near you .  Good could 
never come of such evil ,  a happier end was not in nature to 
so unhappy a beginning .  Be comforted ,  and forgive me .  
Heaven bless you  !   "  

As he was drawn away ,  his wife released him ,  and stood 
looking after him with her hands touching one another in the 
attitude of prayer ,  and with a radiant look upon her face ,  in 
which there was even a comforting smile .  As he went out 
at the prisoners door ,  she turned ,  laid her head lovingly on 
her fathers breast ,  tried to speak to him ,  and fell at his feet .  

Then ,  issuing from the obscure corner from which he had 
never moved ,  Sydney Carton came and took her up .  Only 
her father and Mr .  Lorry were with her .  His arm trembled 
as it raised her ,  and supported her head .  Yet ,  there was an 
air about him that was not all of pity — that had a flush of 
pride in it .  

 " Shall I take her to a coach? I shall never feel her 
weight .  "  

He carried her lightly to the door ,  and laid her tenderly 
down in a coach .  Her father and their old friend got into 
it ,  and he took his seat beside the driver .  

When they arrived at the gateway where he had paused in 
the dark not many hours before ,  to picture to himself on 
which of the rough stones of the street her feet had trodden ,  
he lifted her again ,  and carried her up the staircase to their 




H 

H 
33 



K 
W 
H 



A PARTING BLESSING 375 

rooms .  There ,  he laid her down on a couch ,  where her child 
and Miss Pross wept over her .  

 " Dont recall her to herself ,  "  he said ,  softly ,  to the latter ,  
 "  she is better so .  Dont revive her to consciousness ,  while 
she only faints .  "  

 "  Oh ,  Carton ,  Carton ,  dear Carton  !   "  cried little Lucie ,  
springing up and throwing her amis passionately round him ,  
in a burst of grief .   "  Now that you have come ,  I think you 
will do something to help mamma ,  something to save papa  !  
O ,  look at her ,  dear Carton  !  Can you ,  of all the people 
who love hex "  ,  bear to see her so ?  "  

He bent over the child ,  and laid her blooming cheek against 
his face .  He put her gently from him ,  and looked at her 
unconscious mother .  

 " Before I go ,  "  he said ,  and paused —  "  I ma} kiss her? "  

It was remembered afterwards that when he bent down and 
touched her face with his lips ,  he murmured some words .  The 
child ,  who was nearest to him ,  told them afterwards ,  and told 
her grandchildren when she was a handsome old lady ,  that 
she heard him say ,   " A life you love .  "  

When he had gone out into the next room ,  he turned 
suddenly on Mr .  Lorry and her father ,  who were following ,  
and said to the latter : 

 " You had great influence but yesterday ,  Doctor Manette  ;  
let it at least be tried .  These judges ,  and all the men in 
power ,  are very friendly to you ,  and very recognisant of 
your services  ;  are they not ?  "  

 "  Nothing connected with Charles was concealed from me .  
I had the strongest assurances that I should save him  ;  and 
I did .  "  He returned the answer in great trouble ,  and very 
sloAvly .  

 "  Try them again .  The hours between this and to - morrow 
afternoon are few and short ,  but try .  "  

 " I intend to try .  I will not rest a moment .  "  

 "  Thats well .  I have known such energy as yours do great 
things before now — though never ,  "  i>3 added ,  with a smile 
and a sigh together ,   "  such great things as this .  But tiy  !  
Of little worth as life is when we misuse it ,  it is worth 
that effort .  It would cost nothing to lay down if it were 
not .  "  

 " I will go ,  "  said Doctor Manette ,   "  to the Prosecutor and 
the President straight ,  and I will go to others whom it is 
better not to name .  I will write too ,  and But stay  !  



376 A TALE OF TWO CITIES 

There is a celebration in the streets ,  and no one will be 
accessible until dark .  "  

 "  Thats true .  Well  !  It is a forlorn hope at the best ,  
and not much the forlorner for being delayed till dark .  I 
should like to know how you speed  ;  though ,  mind  !  I expect 
nothing  !  When are you likely to have seen these dread 
powers .  Doctor Manette ?  "  

• Immediately after dark .  I should hope .  Within an hour 
or two from this .  "  

 "  It will be dark soon after four .  Let us stretch the 
hour or two .  If I go to Mr .  Lorrys at nine ,  shall I hear 
what you have done ,  either from our friend or from your -  
self? "  

 " Yes .  "  

 "  May you prosper  !   "  

Mr .  Lorry followed Sydney to the outer door ,  and ,  touch -  
ing him on the shoulder as he was going away ,  caused him 
to turn .  

 "  I have no hope ,  "  said Mr .  Lorry ,  in a low and sorrowful 
whisper .  

 "  Nor have I .  "  

 "  If any one of these men ,  or all of these men .  were disposed 
to spare him — which is a large supposition  ;  for what is his 
life ,  or any mans to them  !  — I doubt if they durst spare him 
after the demonstration in the court .  "  

 "  And so do I .  I heard the fall of the axe in that sound .  "  

Mr .  Lorry leaned his arm upon the door - post ,  and bowed 
his face upon it .  

 " Dont despond ,  "  said Carton ,  very gently  ;   " dont grieve .  
I encouraged Doctor Manette in this idea ,  because I felt that 
it might one day be consolatory to her .  Otherwise ,  she 
might think  his life was wantonly thrown away or wasted ,  
and that might trouble her .  "  

* Yes ,  yes ,  yes ,  "  returned Mr .  Lorry ,  drying his eyes ,   "  you 
are right .  But he will perish  ;  there is no real hope .  "  

 " Yes .  He will perish: there is no real hepe ,  "  echoed 
Carton .  And walked with a settled step ,  down - stairs .  



CHAPTER XII 

DARKNESS 

Sydney Carton paused in the street ,  not quite decided 
where to go .   " At Tellsons banking - house at nine ,  "  he 
said ,  with a musing face .   "  Shall I do well ,  in the mean 
time ,  to show myself ? I think so .  It is best that these 
people should know there is such a man as I here  ;  it is 
a sound precaution ,  and may be a necessary preparation .  
But care ,  care ,  care  !  Let me think it out  !   "  

Checking his steps ,  which had begun to tend towards an 
object ,  he took a turn or two in the already darkening 
street ,  and traced the thought in his mind to its possible 
consequences .  His first impression was confirmed .   "  It is 
best ,  "  he said ,  finally resolved ,   " that these people should 
know there is such a man as I here .  "  And he turned his 
face towards Saint Antoine .  

Defarge had described himself ,  that day ,  as the keeper of 
a wine - shop in the Saint Antoine suburb .  It was not 
difficult for one who knew the city well ,  to find his house 
without asking any question .  Having ascertained its situa -  
tion ,  Carton came out of those closer streets again ,  and 
dined at a place of refreshment and fell sound asleep after 
dinner .  For the first time in many years ,  he had no strong 
drink .  Since last night he had taken nothing but a little 
light thin wine ,  and last night he had dropped the brandy 
slowly down on Mr .  Lorrys hearth like a man who had 
done with it .  

It was as late as seven oclock when he awoke refreshed ,  
and went out into the streets again .  As he passed along 
towards Saint Antoine ,  he stopped at a shop - window where 
there was a mirror ,  and slightly altered the disordered 
arrangement of his loose cravat ,  and his coat - collar ,  and his 
wild hair .  This done ,  he went on direct to Defarge s ,  and 
went in .  

There happened to be no customer in the shop but 



378 A TALE OF TWO CITIES 

Jacques Three ,  of the restless fingers and the croaking voice .  
This man ,  whom he had seen upon the Jury ,  stood drinking 
at the little counter ,  in conversation with the Defarges ,  man 
and wife .  The Vengeance assisted in the conversation ,  like 
a regular member of the establishment .  

As Carton walked in ,  took his seat and asked  ( in very 
indifferent French )  for a small measure of wine ,  Madame 
Defarge cast a careless glance at him ,  and then a keener ,  
and then a keener ,  and then advanced to him herself ,  and 
asked him what it was he had ordered .  

He repeated what he had already said .  

 "  English ?  "  asked Madame Defarge ,  inquisitively raising 
her dark eyebrows .  

After looking at her ,  as if the sound of even a single 
French word were slow to express itself to him ,  he answered ,  
in his former strong foreign accent ,   "  Yes ,  madame ,  yes .  
I am English  !   "  

Madame Defarge returned to her counter to get the wine ,  
and ,  as he took up a Jacobin journal and feigned to pore 
over it puzzling out its meaning ,  he heard her say ,    I swear 
to you ,  like Evremonde  !   "  

Defarge brought him the wine ,  and gave him Good 
Evening .  

 "  How ?  "  

 "  Good evening .  "  

 " Oh !  Good evening ,  citizen ,  "  filling his glass .   " Ah !  
and good wine .  I drink to the Republic .  "  

Defarge went back to the counter ,  and said ,   "  Certainly ,  
a little like .  "  Madame sternly retorted ,  I tell you a good 
deal like .  "  Jacques Three pacifically remarked ,   " He is so 
much in your mind ,  see you ,  madame .  "  The amiable 
Vengeance added ,  with a laugh ,   "  Yes ,  my faith  !  And you 
are looking forward with so much pleasure to seeing him 
once more to - morrow  !   "  

Carton followed the lines and words of his paper ,  with 
a slow forefinger ,  and with a studious and absorbed face .  
They were all leaning their arms on the counter close 
together ,  speaking low .  After a silence of a few moments ,  
during which they all looked towards him without disturbing 
his outward attention from the Jacobin editor ,  they resumed 
their conversation .  

 " It is true what madame says ,  "  observed Jacques Three .  
 "  Why stop ? There is great force in that .  Why stop ?  



CONVERSATION AT THE WINE - SHOP 379 

 " Well ,  well ,  "  reasoned Defarge ,   " but one must stop 
somewhere .  After all ,  the question is still where ?  "  

 " At extermination ,  "  said madame .  

 "  Magnificent  !   "  croaked Jacques Three .  The Vengeance ,  
also ,  highly approved .  

 "  Extermination is good doctrine ,  my wife ,  "  said Defarge ,  
rather troubled  ;   "  in general ,  I say nothing against it .  But 
this Doctor has suffered much  ;  you have seen him to - day  ;  
you have observed his face when the paper was read .  "  

 " I have observed his face !  "  repeated madame ,  con -  
temptuously and angrily .   " Yes .  I have observed his face .  
I have observed his face to be not the face of a true friend 
of the Eepublic .  Let him take care of his face  !   "  

 " And you have observed ,  my wife ,  "  said Defarge ,  in 
a deprecatory manner ,   "  the anguish of his daughter ,  which 
must be a dreadful anguish to him  !   "  

 " I have observed his daughter ,  "  repeated madame  ;   " yes ,  
I have observed his daughter ,  more times than one .  I have 
observed her to - day ,  and I have observed her other days .  
I have observed her in the court ,  and I have observed her 

in the street by the prison .  Let me but lift my finger  !   "  

She seemed to raise it  ( the listeners eyes were always on his 
paper )  ,  and to let it fall with a rattle on the ledge before her ,  
as if the axe had dropped .  

 "  The citizeness is superb  !   "  croaked the Juryman .  

 "  She is an Angel  !   "  said The Vengeance ,  and embraced 
her .  

 " As to thee .  "  pursued madame ,  implacably ,  addressing 
her husband ,   " if it depended on thee — which ,  happily ,  it 
does not — thou wouldst rescue this man even now .  "  

 "  No  !   "  protested Defarge .   "  Not if to lift this glass 
would do it  !  But I would leave the matter there .  I say ,  
stop there .  "  

 "  See you then ,  Jacques ,  "  said Madame Defarge ,  wrath -  
fully  ;   "  and see you ,  too ,  my little Vengeance  ;  see you 
both  !  Listen  !  For other crimes as tyrants and oppressors ,  
I have this race a long time on my register ,  doomed to 
destruction and extermination .  Ask my husband ,  is that 
so .  "  

 " It is so ,  "  assented Defarge ,  without being asked .  

 "  In the beginning of the great days ,  when the Bastille 
falls ,  he finds this paper of to - day .  and he brings it home ,  
and in the middle of the night when this place is clear and 



380 A TALE OF TWO CITIES 

shut ,  we read it ,  here on this spot ,  by the light of this 
lamp .  Ask him ,  is that so .  "  

 " It is so ,  "  assented Defarge .  

 "  That night ,  I tell him ,  when the paper is read through ,  
and the lamp is burnt out ,  and the day is gleaming in above 
those shutters and between those iron bars ,  that I have now 
a secret to communicate .  Ask him ,  is that so .  "  

 " It is so ,  "  assented Defarge again .  

 "  I communicate to him that secret .  I smite this bosom 
with these two hands as I smite it now ,  and I tell him ,  
1 Defarge ,  I was brought up among the fishermen of the 
sea - shore ,  and that peasant family so injured by the two 
Evremonde brothers ,  as that Bastille paper describes ,  is my 
family .  Defarge ,  that sister of the mortally wounded boy 
upon the ground was my sister ,  that husband was my 
sisters husband ,  that unborn child was their child ,  that 
brother was my brother ,  that father was my father ,  those 
dead are my dead ,  and that summons to answer for those 
things descends to me  !   Ask him ,  is that so .  "  

 " It is so ,  "  assented Defarge once more .  

 "  Then tell Wind and Fire where to stop ,  "  returned 
madame  ;   " but dont tell me .  "  

Both her hearers derived a horrible enjoyment from the 
deadly nature of her wrath — the listener could feel how 
white she was ,  without seeing her — and both highly com -  
mended it .  Defarge ,  a weak minority ,  interposed a few 
words for the memory of the compassionate wife of the 
Marquis  ;  but only elicited from his own wife a repetition 
of her last reply .   "  Tell the Wind and the Fire where to 
stop  ;  not me  !   "  

Customers entered ,  and the group was broken up .  The 
English customer paid for what he had had ,  perplexedly 
counted his change ,  and asked ,  as a stranger ,  to be directed 
towards the National Palace .  Madame Defarge took him to 
the door ,  and put her arm on his ,  in pointing out the road .  
The English customer was not without his reflections then ,  
that it might be a good deed to seize that arm ,  lift it ,  and 
strike under it sharp and deep .  

But ,  he went his way ,  and was soon swallowed up in the 
shadow of the prison wall .  At the appointed hour ,  he 
emerged from it to present himself in Mr .  Lorrys room 
again ,  where he found the old gentleman walking to and 
fro in restless anxiety ,  lie said he had been with Lucie 



ANXIETY CONCERNING THE DOCTOR 38 1 

until just now ,  and had only left her for a few minutes ,  to 
come and keep his appointment .  Her father had not been 
seen ,  since he quitted the banking - house towards four 
oclock .  She had some faint hopes that his mediation might 
save Charles ,  but they were very slight .  He had been more 
than five hours gone : where could he be ? 

Mr .  Lorry waited until ten  ;  but ,  Doctor Manette not 
returning ,  and he being unwilling to leave Lucie any longer ,  
it was arranged that he should go back to her ,  and come to 
the banking - house again at midnight .  In the meanwhile ,  
Carton would wait alone by the fire for the Doctor .  

He waited and waited ,  and the clock struck twelve  ;  but 
Doctor Manette did not come back .  Mr .  Lorry returned ,  
and found no tidings of him ,  and brought none .  Where 
could he be ? 

They were discussing this question ,  and were almost 
building up some weak structure of hope on his prolonged 
absence ,  when they heard him on the stairs .  The instant 
he entered the room ,  it was plain that all was lost .  

Whether he had really been to any one ,  or whether he 
had been all that time traversing the streets ,  was never 
known .  As he stood staring at them ,  they asked him no 
question ,  for his face told them everything .  

 "  I cannot find it ,  "  said he ,  and I must have it .  Where 
is it? "  

His head and throat were bare ,  and ,  as he spoke with 
a helpless look straying all around ,  he took his coat off ,  and 
let it drop on the floor .  

 " Where is my bench? I have been looking everywhere 
for my bench ,  and I cant find it .  What have they done 
with my work? Time presses : I must finish those shoes .  "  

They looked at one another ,  and their hearts died within 
them .  

 "  Come ,  come  !   "  said he ,  in a whimpering miserable way  ;  
 " let me get to work .  Give me my work .  "  

Receiving no answer ,  he tore his hair ,  and beat his feet 
upon the ground ,  like a distracted child .  

 "  Dont torture a poor forlorn wretch ,  "  he implored them ,  
with a dreadful cry  ;   "  but give me my work  !  What is to 
become of us ,  if those shoes are not done to - night ?  "  

Lost ,  utterly lost  !  

It was so clearly beyond hope to reason with him ,  or try 
to restore him ,  — that — as if by agreement — they each put 



382 A TALE OF TWO CITIES 

a hand upon his shoulder ,  and soothed him to sit down 
before the fire ,  with a promise that he should have his work 
presently .  He sank into the chair ,  and brooded over the 
embers ,  and shed tears .  As if all that had happened since 
the garret time were a momentary fancy ,  or a dream ,  
Mr .  Lorry saw him shrink into the exact figure that Defarge 
had had in keeping .  

Affected ,  and impressed with terror as they both were ,  by 
this spectacle of ruin ,  it was not a time to yield to such 
emotions .  His lonely daughter ,  bereft of her final hope 
and reliance ,  appealed to them both too strongly .  Again ,  
as if by agreement ,  they looked at one another with one 
meaning in their faces .  Carton was the first to speak : 

 "  The last chance is gone : it was not much .  Yes  ;  he 
had better be taken to her .  But ,  before you go ,  will you ,  
for a moment ,  steadily attend to me ? Dont ask me why 
I make the stipulations I am going to make ,  and exact 
the promise I am going to exact  ;  I have a reason — a good 
one .  "  

 " I do not doubt it ,  "  answered Mr .  Lorry .   " Say on .  "  

The figure in the chair between them ,  was all the time 
monotonously rocking itself to and fro ,  and moaning .  They 
spoke in such a tone as they would have used if they had 
been watching by a sick - bed in the night .  

Carton stooped to pick up the coat ,  which lay almost 
entangling his feet .  As he did so ,  a small case in which the 
Doctor was accustomed to carry the list of his days duties ,  
fell lightly on the floor .  Carton took it up ,  and there was 
a folded paper in it .   " We should look at this !  "  he said .  
Mr .  Lorry nodded his consent .  He opened it ,  and exclaimed ,  
 "  Thank God  !   "  

 " What is it? "  asked Mr .  Lorry ,  eagerly .  

 " A moment !  Let me speak of it in its place .  First ,  "  
he put his hand in his coat ,  and took another paper from it ,  
 " that is the certificate which enables me to pass out of this 
city .  Look at it .  You see — Sydney Carton ,  an English -  
man ?  "  

Mr .  Lorry held it open in his hand ,  gazing in his earnest 
face .  

 "  Keep it for me until to - morrow .  I shall see him to -  
morrow ,  you remember ,  and I had better not take it into 
the prison .  "  
 " Why not? "  



THE DOCTOR AND LUCIE IN DANGER 383 

I dont know ;  I prefer not to do so .  Now ,  take this 
paper that Doctor Manette has carried about him .  It is a 
similar certificate ,  enabling him and his daughter and her 
child ,  at any time ,  to pass the barrier and the frontier? 
You see? "  

 "  Yes  !   "  

 "  Perhaps he obtained it as his last and utmost precaution 
against evil ,  yesterday .  When is it dated ? But no matter  ;  
dont stay to look  ;  put it up carefully with mine and your 
own .  Now ,  observe  !  I never doubted until within this 
hour or two ,  that he had ,  or could have such a paper .  
It is good ,  until recalled .  But it may be soon recalled ,  and ,  
I have reason to think ,  will be .  "  

 "  They are not in danger ?  "  

 "  They are in great danger .  They are in danger of 
denunciation by Madame Defarge .  I know it from her own 
lips .  I have overheard words of that womans ,  to - night ,  
which have presented their danger to me in strong colours .  
I have lost no time ,  and since then ,  I have seen the spy .  
He confirms me .  He knows that a wood - sawyer ,  living by 
the prison - wall ,  is under the control of the Defarges ,  and 
has been rehearsed by Madame Defarge as to his having seen 
Her "  — he never mentioned Lucies name —  " making signs 
and signals to prisoners .  It is easy to foresee that the 
pretence will be the common one ,  a prison plot ,  and that 
it will involve her life — and perhaps her childs — and 
perhaps her fathers — for both have been seen with her at that 
place .  Dont look so horrified .  You will save them all .  "  

 "  Heaven grant I may ,  Carton  !  But how ?  "  

 " I am going to tell you how .  It will depend on you ,  
and it could depend on no better man .  This new denuncia -  
tion will certainly not take place until after to - morrow  ;  
probably not until two or three days afterwards  ;  more 
probably a week afterwards .  You know it is a capital 
crime ,  to mourn for ,  or sympathise with ,  a victim of the 
Guillotine .  She and her father would unquestionably be 
guilty of this crime ,  and this woman  ( the inveteracy of 
whose pursuit cannot be described )  would wait to add that 
strength to her case ,  and make herself doubly sure .  You 
follow me ?  "  

 " So attentively ,  and with so much confidence in what 
you say ,  that for the moment I lose sight ,  "  touching the 
back of the Doctors chair ,   " even of this distress .  "  



384 A TALE OF TWO CITIES 

 "  You have money ,  and can buy the means of travelling 
to the sea - coast as quickly as the journey can be made .  
Your preparations have been completed for some days ,  to 
return to England .  Early to - morrow have your horses 
ready ,  so that they may be in starting trim at two oclock 
in the afternoon .  "  

 -  It shall be done  !   "  

His manner was so fervent and inspiring ,  that Mr .  Lorry 
caught the flame ,  and was as quick as youth .  

 "  You are a noble heart .  Did I say we could depend 
upon no better man ? Tell her ,  to - night ,  what you know of 
her danger as involving her child and her father .  Dwell 
upon that ,  for she would lay her own fair head beside her 
husbands cheerfully . * He faltered for an instant ;  then 
went on as before .   "  For the sake of her child and her 
father ,  press upon her the necessity of leaving Paris ,  with 
them and you ,  at that hour .  Tell her that it was her 
husbands last arrangement .  Tell her that more depends 
upon it than she dare believe ,  or hope .  You think that her 
father ,  even in this sad state ,  will submit himself to her  ;  
do you not ?  "  

 "  I am sure of it .  "  

 "  I thought so .  Quietly and steadily have all these 
arrangements made in the court - yard here ,  even to the 
taking of your own seat in the carriage .  The moment 
I come to you ,  take me in ,  and drive away .  "  

 " I understand that I wait for you under all circum -  
stances ?  "  

 "  You have my certificate in your hand with the rest ,  you 
know ,  and will reserve my place .  Wait for nothing but to 
have my place occupied ,  and then for England  !   "  

 " Why ,  then ,  "  said Mr .  Lorry ,  grasping his eager but so 
firm and steady hand ,  u it does not all depend on one old 
man ,  but I shall have a young and ardent man at my side .  "  

 "  By the help of Heaven you shall  !  Promise me solemnly 
that nothing will influence you to alter the course on which 
we now stand pledged to one another .  "  

 " Nothing ,  Carton .  "  

 "  Remember these words to - morrow : change the course ,  
or delay in it — for any reason — and no life can possibly be 
saved ,  and many lives must inevitably be sacrificed .  "  

 " I will remember them .  I hope to do my part faith -  
fully .  "  



A BLESSING AND A FAREWELL 385 

 " And I hope to do mine .  Now ,  good - bye  !   "  
Though he said it with a grave smile of earnestness ,  and 
though he even put the old mans hand to his lips ,  he did 
not part from him then .  He helped him so far to arouse 
the rocking figure before the dying embers ,  as to get a cloak 
and hat put upon it ,  and to tempt it forth to find where the 
bench and work were hidden that it still moaningly besought 
to have .  He walked on the other side of it and protected 
it to the court - yard of the house where the afflicted heart 
— so happy in the memorable time when he had revealed 
his own desolate heart to it — outwatched the awful night .  
He entered the court - yard and remained there for a few 
moments alone ,  looking up at the light in the window of 
her room .  Before he went away ,  he breathed a blessing 
towards it ,  and a Farewell .  



I .  N 



CHAPTER XIII 

FIFTY - TWO 

In the black prison of the Conciergerie ,  the doomed of the 
day awaited their fate .  They were in number as the weeks 
of the year .  Fifty - two were to roll that afternoon on the 
life - tide of the city to the boundless everlasting sea .  Before 
their cells were quit of them ,  new occupants were appointed  ;  
before their blood ran into the blood spilled yesterday ,  the 
blood that was to mingle with theirs to - morrow was already 
set apart .  

Two score and twelve were told off .  From the farmer -  
general of seventy ,  whose riches could not buy his life ,  to the 
seamstress of twenty ,  whose poverty and obscurity could not 
save her .  Physical diseases ,  engendered in the vices and 
neglects of men ,  will seize on victims of all degrees  ;  and 
the frightful moral disorder ,  born of unspeakable suffering ,  
intolerable oppression ,  and heartless indifference ,  smote 
equally without distinction .  

Charles Darnay ,  alone in a cell ,  had sustained himself 
with no flattering delusion since he came to it from the 
Tribunal .  In every line of the narrative he had heard ,  he 
had heard his condemnation .  He had fully comprehended 
that no personal influence could possibly save him .  that he 
was virtually sentenced by the millions ,  and that units could 
avail him nothing .  

Nevertheless ,  it was not easy ,  with the face of his beloved 
wife fresh before him ,  to compose his mind to what it must 
bear .  His hold on life was strong ,  and it was very ,  very 
hard to loosen  ;  by gradual efforts and degrees unclosed 
a little here ,  it clenched the tighter there  ;  and when he 
brought his strength to bear on that hand and it yielded ,  
this was closed again .  There was a hurry ,  too .  in all his 
thoughts ,  a turbulent and heated working of his heart ,  that 
contended against resignation .  If ,  for a moment ,  he did 



DARNAY PREPARES TO DIE 387 

feel resigned ,  then his wife and child who had to live after 
him ,  seemed to protest and to make it a selfish thing .  

But ,  all this was at first .  Before long ,  the consideration 
that there was no disgrace in the fate he must meet ,  and that 
numbers went the same road wrongfully ,  and trod it firmly 
every day ,  sprang up to stimulate him .  Next followed the 
thought that much of the future peace of mind enjoyable 
by the dear ones ,  depended on his cmiet fortitude .  So ,  by 
degrees he calmed into the better state ,  when he could raise 
his thoughts much higher ,  and draw comfort clown .  

Before it had set in dark on the night of his condemnation ,  
he had travelled thus far on his last way .  Being allowed 
to purchase the means of writing ,  and a light ,  he sat down 
to write until such time as the prison lamps should be 
extinguished .  

He wrote a long letter to Lucie ,  showing her that he had 
known nothing of her fathers imprisonment ,  until he had 
heard of it from herself ,  and that he had been as ignorant as 
she of his fathers and uncles responsibility for that misery ,  
until the paper had been read .  He had already explained to 
her that his concealment from herself of the name he had 
relinquished ,  was the one condition — fully intelligible now — 
that her father had attached to their betrothal ,  and was the 
one promise he had still exacted on the morning of their 
marriage .  He entreated her ,  for her fathers sake ,  never to 
seek to know whether her father had become oblivious of the 
existence of the paper ,  or had had it recalled to him  ( for the 
moment ,  or for good )  ,  by the story of the Tower ,  on that 
old Sunday under the dear old plane - tree in the garden .  
If he had preserved any definite remembrance of it ,  there 
could be no doubt that he had supposed it destroyed with 
the Bastille ,  when he had found no mention of it among the 
relics of prisoners which the populace had discovered there ,  
and which had been described to all the world .  He besought 
her — though he added that he knew it was needless — to 
console her father ,  by impressing him through every tender 
means she could think of .  with the truth that he had done 
nothing for which he could justly reproach himself ,  but had 
uniformly forgotten himself for their joint sakes .  Next to 
her preservation of his own last grateful love and blessing ,  
and her overcoming of her sorrow ,  to devote herself to their 
dear child ,  he adjured her ,  as they would meet in Heaven ,  
to comfort her father .  



o88 A TALE OF TWO CITIES 

To her father himself ,  he wrote in the same strain  ;  but ,  
he told her father that he expressly confided his wife and 
child to his care .  And he told him this ,  very strongly ,  with 
the hope of rousing him from any despondency or dangerous 
retrospect towards which he foresaw he might be tending .  

To Mr Lorry ,  he commended them all ,  and explained his 
worldly affairs .  That done ,  with many added sentences of 
grateful friendship and warm attachment ,  all was done He 
never thought of Carton .  His mind _ was so full ot the 
others ,  that he never once thought of him .  

He had time to finish these letters before the lights were 
put out .  When he lay down on his straw bed ,  he thought 
he had done with this world .  

But it beckoned him back in his sleep ,  and showed itseli 
in shining forms .  Free and happy ,  back in the old house m 
Soho  ( though it had nothing in it like the real house )  ,  un -  
accountably released and light of heart ,  he was with Lucie 
again ,  and she told him it was all a dream ,  and he had never 
gone away .  A pause of forgetf ulness ,  and then he had even 
suffered ,  and had come back to her ,  dead and at peace ,  and 
vet there was no difference in him .  Another pause ot 
oblivion ,  and he awoke in the sombre morning ,  unconscious 
where he was or what had happened ,  until it flashed upon 
his mind ,   "  this is the day of my death  !   "  

Thus had he come through the hours ,  to the day when 
the fifty - two heads were to fall .  And now ,  while he was 
composed ,  and hoped that he could meet the end with quiet 
heroism ,  a new action began in his waking thoughts ,  which 
was very difficult to master .  

He had never seen the instrument that was to terminate 

his life How high it was from the ground ,  how many steps 

it had ,  where he would be stood ,  how he would be touched ,  

whether the touching hands would be dyed red which way 

his face would be turned ,  whether he would be the hist ,  or 

mioht be the last : these and many similar questions ,  in no 

wise directed by his will ,  obtruded themselves over and oyer 

again ,  countless times .  Neither were they connected with 

fear -  he was conscious of no fear .  Bather ,  they originated 

in a strange besetting desire to know what to do when the 

time came  ;  a desire gigantically disproportionate to the few 

swift moments to which it referred  ;  a wondering that was 

more like the wondering of some other spirit within his ,  

than his own .  






AN UNEXPECTED VISITOR 389 

The hours went on as he walked to and fro ,  and the clocks 
struck the numbers he would never hear again .  Nine gone 
for ever ,  ten gone for ever ,  eleven gone for ever ,  twelve 
coming on to pass away .  After a hard contest with that 
eccentric action of thought which had last perplexed him ,  he 
had got the better of it .  He walked up and down ,  softly -  
repeating their names to himself .  The worst of the strife 
was over .  He could walk up and down ,  free from distracting 
fancies ,  praying for himself and for them .  

Twelve gone for ever .  

He had been apprised that the final hour was Three ,  and 
he knew he would be summoned some time earlier ,  inasmuch 
as the tumbrils jolted heavily and slowly through the streets .  
Therefore ,  he resolved to keep Two before his mind ,  as the 
hour ,  and so to strengthen himself in the interval that he 
might be able ,  after that time ,  to strengthen others .  

Walking regularly to and fro with his arms folded on his 
breast ,  a very different man from the prisoner ,  who had 
walked to and fro at La Force ,  he heard One struck away 
from him ,  without surprise .  The hour had measured like 
most other hours .  Devoutly thankful to Heaven for his 
recovered self - possession ,  he thought ,   "  There is but another 
now ,  "  and turned to walk again .  

Footsteps in the stone passage outside the door .  He 
stopped .  

The key was put in the lock ,  and turned .  Before the door 
was opened ,  or as it opened ,  a man said in a low voice ,  in 
English :  "  He has never seen me here  ;  I have kept out of 
his way .  Go you in alone  ;  I wait near .  Lose no time  !  "  

The door was quickly opened and closed ,  and there stood 
before him face to face ,  quiet ,  intent upon him ,  with the 
light of a smile on his features ,  and a cautionary finger on 
his lip ,  Sydney Carton .  

There was something so bright and remarkable in his 
look ,  that ,  for the first moment ,  the prisoner misdoubted him 
to be an apparition of his own imagining .  But ,  he spoke ,  
and it was his voice  ;  he took the prisoners hand ,  and it 
was his real grasp .  

 " Of all the people upon earth ,  you least expected to see 
me? "  he said .  

 " I could not believe it to be you .  I can scarcely believe 
it now .  You are not "  — the apprehension came suddenly 
into his mind —  " a prisoner? "  



39° A TALE OF TWO CITIES 

 "  No .  I am accidentally possessed of a power over one 
of the keepers here ,  and in virtue of it I stand before you .  
I come from her — your wife ,  dear Darnay .  "  

The prisoner wrung his hand .  

 "  I bring you a request from her .  "  

 "  What is it ?  "  

 "  A most earnest ,  pressing ,  and emphatic entreaty ,  ad -  
dressed to you in the most pathetic tones of the voice so 
dear to you ,  that you well remember .  "  

The prisoner turned his face partly aside .  

 "  You have no time to ask me why I bring it .  or what it 
means  ;  I have no time to tell you .  You must comply with 
it— take off those boots you wear ,  and draw on these of 
mine .  "  

There was a chair against the wall of the cell ,  behind the 
prisoner .  Carton ,  pressing forward ,  had already ,  with the 
speed of lightning ,  got him down into it ,  and stood over him ,  
barefoot .  

■ Draw on these boots of mine .  Put your hands to them  ;  
put your will to them .  Quick  !   "  

• Carton ,  there is no escaping from this place  ;  it never 
can be done .  You will only die with me .  It is madness .  "  

 "  It would be madness if I asked you to escape  ;  but do I * .  J 
When I ask you to pass out at that door ,  tell me it is 
madness and remain here .  Change that cravat for this of 
mine ,  that coat for this of mine .  While you do it ,  let rne 
take this ribbon from your hah "  ,  and shake out your hair like 
this of mine  !   "  

With wonderful quickness ,  and with a strength both of 
will and action ,  that appeared quite supernatural ,  he forced 
all these changes upon him .  The prisoner was like a young 
child in his hands .  

 "  Carton  !  Dear Carton  !  It is madness .  It cannot be 
accomplished ,  it never can be done ,  it has been attempted ,  
and h .  ; is always failed .  I implore you not to add your death 
to the bitterness of mine .  "  

 "  Do I ask you ,  my dear Darnay ,  to pass the door ? When 
I ask that ,  refuse .  There are pen and ink and paper on this 
table .  Is your hand steady enough to write ?  "  

 "  It was when you came in .  "  

 "  Steady it again ,  and write what I shall dictate .  Quick ,  
friend ,  quick  !   "  

Pressing his hand to his bewildered head ,  Darnay sat down 



SYDNEY CARTON DICTATES A LETTER 39 1 

at the table .  Carton ,  with his right hand in his breast ,  stood 
close beside him .  

 " Write exactly as I speak .  "  

 "  To whom do I address it ?  "  

 " To no one .  "  Carton still had his hand in his breast .  

 "  Do I date it ?  "  

 " No .  "  

The prisoner looked up ,  at each question .  Carton ,  stand -  
ing over him with his hand in his breast ,  looked down .  

 "   If you remember ,   "  said Carton ,  dictating ,   "   the words 
that passed between us ,  long ago ,  you will readily comprehend 
this when you see it .  You do remember them ,  I know .  It 
is not in your nature to forget them .   

He was drawing his hand from his breast  ;  the prisoner 
chancing to look up in his hurried wonder as he wrote ,  the 
hand stopped ,  closing upon something .  

 "  Have you written  forget them  !    Carton asked .  

 "  I have .  Is that a weapon in your hand ?  "  

 "  No  ;  I am not armed .  "  

 "  What is it in your hand ?  "  

 "  You shall know directly .  Write on  ;  there are but a few 
words more .  "  He dictated again .   " I am thankful that 
the time has come ,  when I can prove them .  That I do so 
is no subject for regret or grief .  "  As he said these words 
with his eyes fixed on the writer ,  his hand slowly and softly 
moved down close to the writers face .  

The pen dropped from Darnays fingers on the table ,  and 
he looked about him vacantly .  

 " What vapour is that? "  he asked .  

 "  Vapour ?  "  

 "  Something that crossed me?  "  

 "  I am conscious of nothing  ;  there can be nothing here .  
Take up the pen and finish .  Hurry ,  hurry  !   "  

As if his memory were impaired ,  or his faculties disordered ,  
the prisoner made an effort to rally his attention .  As he 
looked at Carton with clouded eyes and with an altered 
manner of breathing ,  Carton— his hand again hi his breast 
— looked steadily at him .  

 "  Hurry ,  hurry  !   "  

The prisoner bent over the paper ,  once more .  

 "   If it had been otherwise  ;    "  Cartons hand was again 
watchfully and softly stealing down  ;   .   "   I never should have 
used the longer opportunity .  If it had been otherwise  ;   



392 A TALE OF TWO CITIES 

the hand was at the prisoners face  ;   "   "  I should but have 
had so much the more to answer for .  If it had been other -  
wise   "  Carton looked at the pen and saw it was trailing 

off into unintelligible signs .  

Cartons hand moved back to his breast no more .  The 
prisoner sprang up with a reproachful look ,  but Cartons 
hand was close and firm at his nostrils ,  and Cartons left 
arm caught him round the waist .  For a few seconds he 
faintly struggled with the man who had come to lay down 
his life for him  ;  but .  within a minute or so .  he was stretched 
insensible on the ground .  

Quickly ,  but with hands as true to the purpose as his 
heart was .  Carton dressed himself in the clothes the prisoner 
had laid aside ,  combed back his hair ,  and tied it with the 
ribbon the prisoner had worn .  Then ,  he softly called .  
 "  Enter there  !  Come in  !   "  and the Spy presented himself .  

 " You see? "  said Carton ,  looking up ,  as he kneeled on 
one knee beside the insensible figure ,  putting the paper in 
the breast :  " is your hazard very great ?  "  

 " Mr .  Carton ,  "  the Spy answered ,  with a timid snap of his 
fingers ,   "  my hazard is not that ,  in the thick of business here 
if you are true to the whole of your bargain .  "  

 " Dont fear me .  I will be true to the death .  "  

 " You must be ,  Mr .  Carton ,  if the tale of fifty - two is to 
be right .  Being made right by you in that dress ,  I shall 
have no fear .  "  

 "  Have no fear  !  I shall soon be out of the way of harm -  
ing you ,  and the rest will soon be far from here ,  please God  !  
Now r  ,  get assistance and take me to the coach .  "  

 "  You ?  "  said the Spy nervously .  

 "  Him ,  man ,  with whom I have exchanged .  You go out 
at the gate by which you brought me in ?  "  

 " Of course .  "  

 "  I was weak and faint when you brought me in ,  and 
I am fainter now you take me out .  The parting interview 
has overpowered me .  Such a thing has happened here ,  
often ,  and too often .  Your life is in your own hands .  
Quick  !  Call assistance  !   "  

 " You swear not to betray me? "  said the trembling Spy ,  
as he paused for a last moment .  

 "  Man .  man  !   "  returned Carton ,  stamping his foot  ;   "  have 
I sworn by no solemn vow already ,  to go through with this ,  
that you waste the precious moments now ? Take him your -  



CARTON IS LEFT ALONE 393 

self to the court - yard you know of ,  place him yourself in 
the carriage ,  show him yourself to Mr .  Lorry ,  tell him your -  
self to give him no restorative but air ,  and to remember my 
words of last night ,  and his promise of last night ,  and drive 
away  !   "  

The Spy withdrew ,  and Carton seated himself at the table ,  
resting his forehead on his hands .  The Spy returned im -  
mediately ,  with two men .  

 "  How ,  then ?  "  said one of them ,  contemplating the fallen 
figure .   " So afflicted to find that his friend has drawn a 
prize in the lottery of Sainte Guillotine ?  "  

 "  A good patriot ,  "  said the other ,   "  could hardly have been 
more afflicted if the Aristocrat had drawn a blank .  "  

They raised the unconscious figure ,  placed it on a litter 
they had brought to the door ,  and bent to carry it away .  

 " The time is short ,  Evremonde ,  "  said the Spy ,  in a warn -  
ing voice .  

 " I know it well ,  "  answered Carton .   " Be careful of my 
friend ,  I entreat you ,  and leave me .  "  

 " Come ,  then ,  my children ,  "  said Barsad .   "  Lift him ,  and 
come away  !   "  

The door closed ,  and Carton was left alone .  Straining his 
powers of listening to the utmost ,  he listened for any sound 
that might denote suspicion or alarm .  There was none .  
Keys turned ,  doors clashed ,  footsteps passed along distant 
passages : no cry was raised ,  or hurry made ,  that seemed 
unusual .  Breathing more freely in a little while ,  he sat 
down at the table ,  and listened again until the clock struck 
Two .  

Sounds that he was not afraid of ,  for he divined their 
meaning ,  then began to be audible .  Several doors were 
opened in succession ,  and finally his own .  A gaoler ,  with 
a list in his hand ,  looked in ,  merely saying ,   "  Follow me ,  
Evremonde  !   "  and he followed into a large dark room ,  at 
a distance .  It was a dark winter day ,  and what with the 
shadows within ,  and what with the shadows without ,  he 
could but dimly discern the others who were brought there 
to have their arms bound .  Some were standing  ;  some 
seated .  Some were lamenting ,  and in restless motion  ;  but ,  
these were few .  The great majority were silent and still ,  
looking fixedly at the ground .  

As he stood by the wall in a dim corner ,  while some of 
the fifty -  two were brought in after him ,  one man stopped in 
i .  n 3 



394 A TALE 0F TW0 cities 

passing ,  to embrace him ,  as having a knowledge of him .  It 
thrilled him with a great dread of discovery  ;  but the man 
went on .  A very few moments after that ,  a young woman ,  
with a slight girlish form ,  a sweet spare face in which there 
was no vestige of colour ,  and large widely opened patient 
eyes ,  rose from the seat where he had observed her sitting ,  
and came to speak to him .  

 " Citizen Evremonde ,  "  she said ,  touching him with her 
cold hand .   "  I am a poor little seamstress ,  who was with 
you in La Force .  "  

lie murmured for answer :  "  True .  I forget what you 
were accused of ?  "  

 " Plots .  Though the just Heaven knows I am innocent 
of any .  Is it likely ? Who would think of plotting with 
a poor little weak creature like me ?  "  

The forlorn smile with which she said it ,  so touched 
him ,  that tears started from his eyes .  

 " I am not afraid to die ,  Citizen Evremonde .  but I have 
done nothing .  I am not unwilling to die ,  if the Republic 
which is to do so much good to us poor ,  will profit by my 
death  ;  but I do not know how that can be ,  Citizen 
Evremonde .  Such a poor weak little creature  !   "  

As the last thing on earth that his heart was to warm and 
soften to .  it warmed and softened to this pitiable girl .  

 "  I heard you were released ,  Citizen Evremonde .  I hoped 
it was true ?  "  

 "  It was .  But ,  I was again taken and condemned .  "  

 "  If I may ride with you ,  Citizen Evremonde ,  will you let 
me hold your hand ? I am not afraid ,  but I am little and 
weak ,  and it will give me more courage .  "  

As the patient eyes were lifted to his face ,  he saw a sudden 
doubt in them ,  and then astonishment .  He pressed the 
work - worn ,  hunger - worn young fingers ,  and touched his 
lips .  

 "  Are you dying for him ?  "  she whispered .  

 " And his wife and child .  Hush !  Yes .  "  

■ O you will let me hold your brave hand ,  stranger?  "  

 "  Hush  !  Yes ,  my poor sister  ;  to the last . * 

The same shadows that are falling on the prison ,  are fall -  
ing ,  in that same hour of the early afternoon ,  on the Barrier 
with the crowd about it .  when a coach going out of Paris 
drives up to be examined .  



LEAVING PARIS 395 

 "  Who goes here ? Whom have we within ? Papers !  "  

The papers are handed out ,  and read .  

 " Alexandre Manette .  Physician .  French .  Which is 
he ?  "  

This is he  ;  this helpless ,  inarticulately murmuring ,  
wandering old man pointed out .  

 "  Apparently the Citizen - Doctor is not in his right mind ? 
The Eevolution - fever will have been too much for him? "  

Greatly too much for him .  

 : Hah  !  Many suffer with it .  Lucie .  His daughter .  
French .  Which is she ?  "  

This is she .  

 "  Apparently it must be .  Lucie ,  the wife of Evremonde  ;  
is it not ?  "  

It is .  

 "  Hah  !  Evremonde has an assignation elsewhere .  Lucie ,  
her child .  English .  This is she? "  

She and no other .  

 "  Kiss me ,  child of Evremonde .  Now ,  thou hast kissed 
a good Eepublican  ;  something new in thy family  ;  remember 
it  !  Sydney Carton .  Advocate .  English .  Which is he ?  "  

He lies here ,  in this corner of the carriage .  He ,  too is 
pointed out .  

 "  Apparently the English advocate is in a swoon ?  "  

It is hoped he will recover in the fresher air .  It is repre -  
sented that he is not in strong health ,  and has separated 
sadly from a friend who is under the displeasure of the 
Republic .  

 "  Is that all ? It is not a great deal ,  that  !  Many are 
under the displeasure of the Eepublic ,  and must look out at 
the little window .  Jarvis Lorry .  Banker .  English .  Which 
is he ?  "  

 "  I am he .  Necessarily ,  being the last .  "  

It is Jarvis Lorry who has replied to all the previous 
questions .  It is Jarvis Lorry who has alighted and stands 
with his hand on the coach door ,  replying to a group of 
officials .  They leisurely walk round the carriage and leisurely 
mount the box ,  to look at what little luggage it carries on 
the roof ;  the country - people hanging about ,  press nearer 
to the coach doors and greedily stare in  ;  a little child ,  
carried by its mother ,  has its short arm held out for it ,  that 
it may touch the wife of an aristocrat who has gone to the 
Guillotine .  



396 A TALE OF TWO CITIES 

 " Behold your papers ,  Jarvis Lorry ,  countersigned .  "  

 " One can depart ,  citizen? "  

 " One can depart .  Forward ,  my postillions !  A good 
journey  !   "  

 " I salute you ,  citizens .  — And the first danger passed  !   "  

These are again the words of Jarvis Lorry ,  as he clasps 
his hands ,  and looks upward .  There is terror in the carriage ,  
there is weeping ,  there is the heavy breathing of the in -  
sensible traveller .  

 " Are we not going too slowly? Can they not be induced 
to go faster *?  "  asks Lucie ,  clinging to the old man .  

 " It would seem like flight ,  my darling .  I must not urge 
them too much  ;  it would rouse suspicion .  "  

 "  Look back ,  look back ,  and see if we are pursued  !   "  

 "  The road is clear ,  my dearest .  So far ,  we are not 
pursued .  "  

Houses in twos and threes pass by us ,  solitary farms ,  
ruinous buildings ,  dye - works ,  tanneries ,  and the like ,  open 
country ,  avenues of leafless trees .  The hard uneven pave -  
ment is under us ,  the soft deep mud is on either side .  Some -  
times ,  we strike into the skirting mud ,  to avoid the stones 
that clatter us and shake us  ;  sometimes Ave stick in ruts 
and sloughs there .  The agony of our impatience is then so 
great ,  that in our wild alarm and hurry we are for getting 
out and running — hiding — doing anything but stopping .  

Out of the open country ,  in again among ruinous buildings ,  
solitary farms ,  dye - works ,  tanneries ,  and the like ,  cottages in 
twos and threes ,  avenues of leafless trees .  Have these men 
deceived us ,  and taken us back by another road? Is not 
this the same place twice over? Thank Heaven ,  no .  A 
village .  Look back ,  look back ,  and see if we are pursued  !  
Hush  !  the posting - house .  

Leisurely ,  our four horses are taken out  ;  leisurely ,  the 
coach stands in the little street ,  bereft of horses ,  and with 
no likelihood upon it of ever moving again : leisurely ,  the 
new horses come into visible existence ,  one by one  ;  leisurely ,  
the new postilions follow ,  sucking and plaiting the lashes of 
their whips  ;  leisurely ,  the old postilions count their money ,  
make wrong additions ,  and arrive at dissatisfied results .  
All the time ,  our overfraught hearts are beating at a rate 
that would far outstrip the fastest gallop of the fastest 
horses ever foaled .  



ON THE ROAD 397 

At length the new postillions are in their saddles ,  and the 
old are left behind .  We are through the village ,  up the 
hill ,  and down the hill ,  and on the low watery grounds ,  
Suddenfy ,  the postillions exchange speech with animated 
gesticulation ,  and the horses are pulled up ,  almost on their 
haunches .  We are pursued ? 

4i Ho  !  Within the carriage there .  Speak then  !   "  

  What is it ?  "  asks Mr .  Lorry ,  looking out at window .  

 "  How many did they say ?  "  

 " I do not understand you .  "  

 "  — At the last post .  How many to the Guillotine to -  
day ?  "  

 " Fifty - two .  "  

 " I said so !  A brave number !  My fellow - citizen here 
would have it forty  - two  ;  ten more heads are worth having .  
The Guillotine goes handsomely .  I love it .  Hi forward .  
Whoop  !   "  

The night comes on dark .  He moves more  ;  he is begin -  
ning to revive ,  and to speak intelligibly  ;  he thinks they are 
still together  ;  he asks him ,  by his name ,  what he has in his 
hand .  pity us ,  kind Heaven ,  and help us  !  Look out ,  
look out ,  and see if we are pursued .  

The wind is rushing after us ,  and the clouds are flying 
after us ,  and the moon is plunging after us ,  and the whole 
wild night is in pursuit of us  ;  but ,  so far ,  we are pursued 
by nothing else .  



CHAPTER XIV 

THE KNITTING DONE 

In that same juncture of time when the Fifty - Two awaited 
their fate ,  Madame Defarge held darkly ominous council 
with The Vengeance and Jacques Three of the Revolutionary 
Jury .  Not in the wine - shop did Madame Defarge confer 
with these ministers ,  but in the shed of the wood - sawyer ,  
erst a mender of roads .  The sawyer himself did not partici -  
pate in the conference ,  but abided at a little distance ,  like an 
outer satellite who was not to speak until required ,  or to 
offer an opinion until invited .  

 " But our Defarge ,  "  said Jacques Three ,   " is undoubtedly 
a good Republican ? Eh ?  "  

 " There is no better ,  "  the voluble Vengeance protested in 
her shrill notes ,   "  in France .  "  

 " Peace ,  little Vengeance ,  "  said Madame Defarge ,  laying 
her hand with a slight frown on her lieutenants lips ,   "  hear 
me speak .  My husband ,  fellow - citizen ,  is a good Republican 
and a bold man  ;  he has deserved well of the Republic ,  and 
possesses its confidence .  But my husband has his weak -  
nesses ,  and he is so weak as to relent towards this Doctor .  "  

4i It is a great pity ,  "  croaked Jacques Three ,  dubiously 
shaking his head ,  with his cruel fingers at his hungry 
mouth  ;   "  it is not quite like a good citizen  ;  it is a thing to 
regret .  "  

 "  See you ,  "  said madame ,   "  I care nothing for this Doctor ,  I .  
He may wear his head or lose it ,  for any interest I have in 
him  ;  it is all one to me .  But ,  the Evremonde people are 
to be exterminated ,  and the wife and child must follow the 
husband and father .  "  

 "  She has a fine head for it ,  "  croaked Jacques Three .   "  I 
have seen blue eyes and golden hair there ,  and they looked 
charming when Samson held them up .  "  Ogre that he was ,  
he spoke like an epicure .  

Madame Defarge cast down her eyes ,  and reflected a little .  



MORE HEADS WANTED 399 

 " The child also ,  "  observed Jacques Three ,  with a medita -  
tive enjoyment of his words ,   " has golden hair and blue 
eyes .  And we seldom have a child there .  It is a pretty 
sight  !   "  

 " In a word ,  "  said Madame Defarge ,  coming out of her 
short abstraction ,   "  I cannot trust my husband in this 
matter .  Not only do I feel ,  since last night ,  that I dare not 
confide to him the details of my projects  ;  but also I feel 
that if I delay ,  there is clanger of his giving warning ,  and 
then they might escape .  "  

 " That must never be ,  "  croaked Jacques Three  ;   " no one 
must escape .  We have not half enough as it is .  We ought 
to have six score a day .   "  

 " In a word ,  "  Madame Defarge went on ,   " my husband 
has not my reason for pursuing this family to annihilation ,  
and I have not his reason for regarding this Doctor with any 
sensibility .  I must act for myself ,  therefore .  Come hither ,  
little citizen .  "  

The wood - sawyer ,  who held her in the respect ,  and him -  
self in the submission ,  of mortal fear ,  advanced with his 
hand to his red cap .  

 " Touching those signals ,  little citizen ,  "  said Madame 
Defarge ,  sternly ,   "  that she made to the prisoners  ;  you are 
ready to bear witness to them this very day ?  "  

 "  Ay ,  ay ,  why not  !   "  cried the sawyer .   "  Every day ,  in 
all weathers ,  from two to four ,  always signalling ,  sometimes 
with the little one ,  sometimes without .  I know what I 
know .  I have seen with my eyes .  "  

He made all manner of gestures while he spoke ,  as if in 
incidental imitation of some few of the great diversity of 
signals that he had never seen .  

 "  Clearly plots ,  "  said Jacques Three .   "  Transparently  !   "  

 " There is no doubt of the Jury? "  inquired Madame 
Defarge ,  letting her eyes turn to him with a gloomy smile .  

 "  Rely upon the patriotic Jury ,  dear citizeness .  I answer 
for my fellow - Jurymen .  "  

 "  Now ,  let me see ,  "  said Madame Defarge ,  pondering again .  
 "  Yet once more  !  Can I spare this Doctor to my husband ? 
I have no feeling either way .  Can I spare him ?  "  

 " He would count as one head ,  "  observed Jacques Three ,  
in a low voice .   " We really have not heads enough ;  it 
would be a pity .  I think .  "  

 "  He was signalling with her when I saw her .  "  argued 



4<DO A TALE OF TWO CITIES 

Madame Defarge  ;   "  I cannot speak of one without the other  ;  
and I must not be silent ,  and trust the case wholly to him .  
this little citizen here .  For ,  I am not a bad witness . * 

The Vengeance and Jacques Three vied with each other 
in their fervent protestations that she was the most admirable 
and marvellous of witnesses .  The little citizen ,  not to be 
outdone ,  declared her to be a celestial witness .  

 "  He must take his chance ,  "  said Madame Defarge .    ;  No ,  
I cannot spare him  !  You are engaged at three oclock  ;  you 
are going to see the batch of to - day executed .  — You? "  

The question was addressed to the wood - sawyer ,  who 
hurriedly replied in the affirmative : seizing the occasion to 
add that he was the most ardent of Eepublicans ,  and that 
he would be in effect the most desolate of Eepublicans ,  if 
anything prevented him from enjoying the pleasure of 
smoking his afternoon pipe in the contemplation of the 
droll national barber .  He was so very demonstrative herein ,  
that he might have been suspected  ( perhaps was ,  by the dark 
eyes that looked contemptuously at him out of Madame 
Defarges head )  of having his small individual fears for his 
own personal safety ,  every hour in the day .  

 " I ,  "  said madame ,   " am equally engaged at the same 
place .  After it is over — say at eight to - night— come you to 
me ,  in Saint Antoine ,  and we will give information against 
these people at my Section .  "  

The wood - sawyer said he would be proud and flattered 
to attend the citizeness .  The citizeness looking at him ,  he 
became embarrassed ,  evaded her glance as a small dog would 
have done ,  retreated among his wood ,  and hid his confusion 
over the handle of his saw .  

Madame Defarge beckoned the Juryman and The Ven -  
geance a little nearer to the door ,  and there expounded her 
further views to them thus : 

 "  She will now be at home ,  awaiting the moment of his 
death .  She will be mourning and grieving .  She will be in 
a state of mind to impeach the justice of the Eepublic .  
She will be full of sympathy with its enemies .  I will go 
to her .  "   

 "  What an admirable woman  ;  what an adorable woman  !   "  
exclaimed Jacques Three ,  rapturously .   "  Ah .  my cherished  !   "  
cried The Vengeance  ;  and embraced her .  

 " Take you my knitting .  "  said Madame Defarge ,  placing it 
in her lieutenants hands ,   "  and have it ready for me in my 



MADAME DEFARGES EXPEDITION 401 

usual seat .  Keep me my usual chair .  Go you there ,  
straight ,  for there will probably be a greater concourse than 
usual ,  to - day .  "  

 " I willingly obey the orders of my Chief ,  "  said The 
Vengeance with alacrity ,  and kissing her cheek .   "  You will 
not be late ?  "  

 "  I shall be there before the commencement .  "  

 "  And before the tumbrils arrive .  Be sure you are there ,  
my soul ,  "  said The Vengeance ,  calling after her ,  for she had 
already turned into the street ,   "  before the tumbrils arrive  !   "  

Madame Defarge slightly waved her hand ,  to imply that 
she heard ,  and might be relied upon to arrive in good time ,  
and so went through the mud ,  and round the corner of the 
prison wall .  The Vengeance and the Juryman ,  looking after 
her as she walked away ,  were highly appreciative of her fine 
figure ,  and her superb moral endowments .  

There were many women at that time ,  upon whom the 
time laid a dreadfully disfiguring hand  ;  but ,  there was not 
one among them more to be dreaded than this ruthless 
woman ,  now taking her way along the streets .  Of a strong 
and fearless character ,  of shrewd sense and readiness ,  of 
great determination ,  of that kind of beauty which not only 
seems to impart to its possessor firmness and animosity ,  but 
to strike into others an instinctive recognition of those 
qualities  ;  the troubled time would have heaved her up ,  
under any circumstances .  But ,  imbued from her childhood 
with a brooding sense of wrong ,  and an inveterate hatred of 
a class ,  opportunity had developed her into a tigress .  She 
was absolutely without pity .  If she had ever had the virtue 
in her .  it had quite gone out of her .  

It was nothing to her ,  that an innocent man was to die 
for the sins of his forefathers  ;  she saw ,  not him ,  but them .  
It was nothing to her ,  that his wife was to be made a widow 
and his daughter an orphan  ;  that was insufficient punish -  
ment ,  because they were her natural enemies and her prey ,  
and as such had no right to live .  To appeal to her ,  was 
made hopeless by her having no sense of pity ,  even for her -  
self .  If she had been laid low in the streets ,  in any of the 
many encounters in which she had been engaged ,  she would 
not have pitied herself  ;  nor ,  if she had been ordered to the 
axe to - morrow ,  would she have gone to it with any softer 
feeling than a fierce desire to change places with the man 
who sent her there .  



4 02 A TALE OF TWO CITIES 

Such a heart Madame Defarge carried under her rough 
robe .  Carelessly worn ,  it was a becoming robe enough ,  in 
a certain weird way ,  and her dark hair looked rich under 
her coarse red cap .  Lying hidden in her bosom ,  was 
a loaded pistol .  Lying hidden at her waist ,  was a sharpened 
dagger .  Thus accoutred ,  and walking with the confident 
tread of such a character ,  and with the supple freedom of 
a woman who had habitually walked in her girlhood ,  bare -  
foot and bare - legged ,  on the brown sea - sand ,  Madame Defarge 
took her way along the streets .  

Now ,  when the journey of the travelling coach ,  at that 
veiy moment waiting for the completion of its load ,  had 
been planned out last night ,  the difficulty of taking Miss 
Pross in it had much engaged Mr .  Lorrys attention .  It was 
not merely desirable to avoid overloading the coach ,  but it 
was of the highest importance that the time occupied in 
examining it and its passengers ,  should be reduced to the 
utmost  ;  since their escape might depend on the saving of 
only a few seconds here and there .  Finally ,  he had proposed ,  
after anxious consideration ,  that Miss Pross and Jerry ,  who 
were at liberty to leave the city ,  should leave it at three 
oclock in the lightest - wheeled conveyance known to that 
period .  Unencumbered with luggage ,  they would soon over -  
take the coach ,  and ,  passing it and preceding it on the road ,  
would order its horses in advance ,  and greatly facilitate its 
progress during the precious hours of the night ,  when delay 
was the most to be dreaded .  

Seeing in this arrangement the hope of rendering real 
service in that pressing emergency ,  Miss Pross hailed it with 
joy .  She and Jerry had beheld the coach start ,  had known 
who it was that Solomon brought ,  had passed some ten 
minutes in tortures of suspense ,  and were now concluding 
their arrangements to follow the coach ,  even as Madame 
Defarge ,  taking her way through the streets ,  now drew 
nearer and nearer to the else - deserted lodging in which they 
held their consultation .  

 "  Now what do you think ,  Mr .  Cruncher .  "  said Miss Pross ,  
whose agitation was so great that she could hardly speak ,  
or stand ,  or move ,  or live :  "  what do you think of our not 
starting from this court - yard ? Another carriage having 
already gone from here to - day ,  it might awaken suspicion /  

•My opinion ,  miss ,  "  returned Mr .  Cruncher ,   " is as youre 
right .  Likewise wot Ill stand by you ,  right or wrong . * 



MR .  CRUNCHERS GOOD RESOLUTIONS 403 

 "  I am so distracted with fear and hope for our precious 
creatures ,  "  said Miss Pross ,  wildly crying ,   " that I am in -  
capable of forming any plan .  Are you capable of forming 
any plan ,  my dear good Mr .  Cruncher ?  "  

 " Eespectin a future spear o life ,  miss ,  "  returned Mr .  
Cruncher ,   " I hope so .  Eespectin any present use o this 
here blessed old head o mine ,  I think not .  Would you do 
me the favour ,  miss ,  to take notice o two promises and avows 
wot it is my wishes fur to record in this here crisis ?  "  

 "  Oh ,  for gracious sake  !   "  cried Miss Pross ,  still wildly 
crying ,   " record them at once ,  and get them out of the way ,  
like an excellent man .  "  

 "  First ,  "  said Mr .  Cruncher ,  who was all in a tremble ,  and 
who spoke with an ashy and solemn visage ,   "  them poor 
things well out o this ,  never no more will I do it ,  never no 
more  !   "  

 " I am quite sure ,  Mr .  Cruncher ,  "  returned Miss Pross ,  
 " that you never will do it again ,  whatever it is ,  and I beg 
you not to think it necessary to mention more particularly 
what it is .  "  

 " No ,  miss ,  "  returned Jerry ,   " it shall not be named to 
you .  Second : them poor things well out o this ,  and never 
no more will I interfere with Mrs .  Crunchers flopping ,  
never no more  !   "  

 " Whatever housekeeping arrangement that may be ,  "  said 
Miss Pross ,  striving to dry her eyes and compose herself ,  
 "  I have no doubt it is best that Mrs .  Cruncher should 
have it entirely under her own superintendence .  — O my poor 
darlings  !   "  

 " I go so far as to say ,  miss ,  morehover ,  "  proceeded Mr .  
Cruncher ,  with a most alarming tendency to hold forth as 
from a pulpit —  " and let my words be took clown and took 
to Mrs .  Cruncher through yourself— that wot my opinions 
respectin flopping has undergone a change ,  and that wot 
I only hope with all my heart as Mrs .  Cruncher may be 
a flopping at the present time .  "  

 " There ,  there ,  there  !  I hope she is ,  my dear man ,  "  cried 
the distracted Miss Pross ,   "  and I hope she finds it answering 
her expectations .   "  

 " Forbid it ,  "  proceeded Mr .  Cruncher ,  with additional 
solemnity ,  additional slowness ,  and additional tendency to 
hold forth and hold out ,   " as anything wot I have ever said 
or done should be wisited on my earnest wishes for them 



404 A TALE OF TWO CITIES 

poor creeturs now  !  Forbid it as we shouldnt all flop  ( if it 
was anyways conwenient )  to get em out o this here dismal 
risk  !  Forbid it ,  miss  !  Wot I say ,  for — bid it  !   "  This 
was Mr .  Crunchers conclusion after a protracted but vain 
endeavour to find a better one .  

And still Madame Defarge ,  pursuing her way along the 
streets ,  came nearer and nearer .  

 " If we ever get back to our native land ,  "  said Miss Pross ,  
 "  you may rely upon my telling Mrs .  Cruncher as much as 
I may be able to remember and understand of what you 
have so impressively said  ;  and at all events you may be 
sure that I shall bear witness to your being thoroughly in 
earnest at this dreadful time .  Now ,  pray let us think  !  My 
esteemed Mr .  Cruncher ,  let us think  !   "  

Still ,  Madame Defarge ,  pursuing her way along the streets ,  
came nearer and nearer .  

 " If you were to go before ,  "  said Miss Pross .   " and stop 
the vehicle and horses from coming here ,  and were to wait 
somewhere for me  ;  wouldnt that be best ?  "  
Mr .  Cruncher thought it might be best .  
• Whex - e could you wait for me ?  "  asked Miss Pross .  
Mr .  Cruncher was so bewildered that he could think of 
no locality but Temple Bar .  Alas  !  Temple Bar was hundreds 
of miles away ,  and Madame Defarge was drawing very near 
indeed .  

 " By the cathedral door ,  "  said Miss Pross .   " Would it 
be much out of the way ,  to take me in ,  near the great 
cathedral door between the two towers ?  "  
 "  No ,  miss ,  "  answered Mr .  Cruncher .  

 " Then ,  like the best of men ,  "  said Miss Pross ,   " go to the 
posting - house straight ,  and make that change .  "  

 "  I am doubtful ,  "  said Mr .  Cruncher ,  hesitating and shaking 
his head ,   "  about leaving of you ,  you see .  We dont know 
what may happen .  "  

 "  Heaven knows we dont ,  "  returned Miss Pross ,   "  but 
have no fear for me .  Take me in at the cathedral ,  at Three 
oclock ,  or as near it as you can .  and I am sure it will 
be better than our going from here .  I feel certain of it .  
There  !  Bless you ,  Mr .  Cruncher  !  Think — not of me ,  but 
of the lives that may depend on both of us  !   "  

This exordium ,  and Miss Prosss two hands in quite 
agonised entreaty clasping his .  decided Mr .  Cruncher .  With 
an encouraging nod or two ,  he immediately went out to 



MADAME DEFARGE THREATENS 405 

alter the arrangements ,  and left her by herself to follow as 
she had proposed .  

The having originated a precaution which was already in 
course of execution ,  was a great relief to Miss Pross .  The 
necessity of composing her appearance so that it should 
attract no special notice in the streets ,  was another relief .  
She looked at her watch ,  and it was twenty minutes past 
two .  She had no time to lose ,  but must get ready at 
once .  

Afraid ,  in her extreme perturbation ,  of the loneliness of 
the deserted rooms ,  and of half - imagined faces peeping from 
behind every open door in them ,  Miss Pross got a basin 
of cold water and began laving her eyes ,  which were swollen 
and red .  Haunted by her feverish apprehensions ,  she could 
not bear to have her sight obscured for a minute at a time 
by the dripping water ,  but constantly paused and looked 
round to see that there was no one watching her .  In one 
of those pauses she recoiled and cried out ,  for she saw 
a figure standing in the room .  

The basin fell to the ground broken ,  and the water flowed 
to the feet of Madame Defarge .  By strange stern ways ,  and 
through much staining blood ,  those feet had come to meet 
that water .  

Madame Defarge looked coldly at her ,  and said ,   " The 
wife of Evremonde  ;  where is she ?  "  

It flashed upon Miss Prosss mind that the doors were all 
standing open ,  and would suggest the flight .  Her first act 
was to shut them .  There were four in the room ,  and she 
shut them all .  She then placed herself before the door of 
the chamber which Lucie had occupied .  

Madame Defarges dark eyes followed her through this 
rapid movement ,  and rested on her when it was finished .  
Miss Pross had nothing beautiful about her  ;  years had not 
tamed the wildness ,  or softened the grimness ,  of her appear -  
ance  ;  but ,  she too was a determined woman in her different 
way ,  and she measured Madame Defarge with her eyes ,  every 
inch .  

 " You might ,  from your appearance ,  be the wife of 
Lucifer ,  "  said Miss Pross ,  in her breathing .   " Nevertheless ,  
you shall not get the better of me .  I am an Englishwoman .  "  

Madame Defarge looked at her scornfully ,  but still with 
something of Miss Prosss own perception that they two were 
at bay .  She saw a tight ,  hard ,  wiiy woman before her ,  as 



406 A TALE OF TWO CITIES 

Mr .  Lorry had seen in the same figure a woman with a strong 
hand ,  in the years gone by .  She knew full well that Miss 
Pross was the familys devoted friend  ;  Miss Pross knew 
full well that Madame Defarge was the familys malevolent 
enemy .  

 "  On my way yonder ,  "  said Madame Defarge ,  with a slight 
movement of her hand towards the fatal spot ,   "  where they 
reserve my chair and my knitting for me ,  I am come to 
make my compliments to her in passing .  I wish to see 
her .  "  

 " I know that your intentions are evil ,  "  said Miss Pross ,  
 "  and you may depend upon it ,  Ill hold my own against 
them .  "  

Each spoke in her own language  ;  neither understood the 
others words  ;  both were very watchful ,  and intent to 
deduce from look and manner ,  what the unintelligible words 
meant .  

 "  It will do her no good to keep herself concealed from 
me at this moment ,  "  said Madame Defarge .   "  Good patriots 
will know what that means .  Let me see her .  Go tell her 
that I wish to see her .  Do you hear? "  

 "  If those eyes of yours were bed - winches ,  "  returned Miss 
Pross ,   " and I was an English four - poster ,  they shouldnt 
loose a splinter of me .  No ,  you wicked foreign woman  ;  I am 
your match .  "  

Madame Defarge was not likely to follow these idiomatic 
remarks in detail  ;  but ,  she so far understood them as to 
perceive that she was set at naught .  

 "  Woman imbecile and pig - like  !   "  said Madame Defarge ,  
frowning .   "  I take no answer from you .  I demand to see 
her .  Either tell her that I demand to see her ,  or stand out 
of the way of the door and let me go to her  !   "  This ,  with 
an angry explanatory wave of her right arm .  

 " I little thought ,  "  said Miss Pross ,   " that I should ever 
want to understand your nonsensical language  ;  but I would 
give all I have ,  except the clothes I wear ,  to know whether 
you suspect the truth ,  or any part of it .  "  

Neither of them for a single moment released the others 
eyes .  Madame Defarge had not moved from the spot where 
she stood when Miss Pross first became aware of her  ;  but 
she now advanced one step .  

 " I am a Briton .  "  said Miss Pross ,   " I am desperate .  I 
dont care an English Twopence for myself .  I know that 



MISS PROSS IN THE BREACH 407 

the longer I keep you here ,  the greater hope there is for my 
Ladybird .  Ill not leave a handful of that dark hair upon 
your head ,  if you lay a finger on me  !   "  

Thus Miss Pross ,  with a shake of her head and a flash 
of her eyes between every rapid sentence ,  and every rapid 
sentence a whole bieath .  Thus Miss Pross ,  who had never 
struck a blow in her life .  

But ,  her courage was of that emotional nature that it 
brought the irrepressible tears into her eyes .  This was 
a courage that Madame Defarge so little comprehended as to 
mistake for weakness .   " Ha ,  ha !  "  she laughed ,   " you poor 
wretch  !  What are you worth  !  I address myself to that 
Doctor .  "  Then she raised her voice and called out ,   " Citizen 
Doctor  !  Wife of Evremonde  !  Child of Evremonde  !  Any 
person but this miserable fool ,  answer the Citizeness De -  
farge  !   "  

Perhaps the following silence ,  perhaps some latent dis -  
closure in the expression of Miss Prosss face ,  perhaps 
a sudden misgiving apart from either suggestion ,  whispered 
to Madame Defarge that they were gone .  Three of the 
doors she opened swiftly ,  and looked in .  

 "  Those rooms are all in disorder ,  there has been hurried 
packing ,  there are odds and ends upon the ground .  There 
is no one in that room behind you  !  Let me look .  "  

 "  Never  !   "  said Miss Pross ,  who understood the request 
as perfectly as Madame Defarge understood the answer .  

 "  If they are not in that room ,  they are gone ,  and can 
be pursued and brought back ,  "  said Madame Defarge to 
herself .  

 "  As long as you dont know whether they are in that 
room or not ,  you are uncertain what to do ,  "  said Miss Pross 
to herself  ;   "  and you shall not know that ,  if I can prevent 
your knowing it  ;  and know that ,  or not know that ,  you 
shall not leave here while I can hold you .  "  

* I have been in the streets from the first ,  nothing has 
stopped me ,  I will tear you to pieces ,  but I will have you 
from that door ,  "  said Madame Defarge .  

 " We are alone at the top of a high house in a solitary 
court - yard ,  we are not likely to be heard ,  and I pray for 
bodily strength to keep you here ,  while every minute you 
are here is worth a hundred thousand guineas to my darling ,  "  
said Miss Pross .  

Madame Defarge made at the door .  Miss Pross ,  on the 



408 A TALE OF TWO CITIES 

instinct of the moment ,  seized her round the waist in both 
her arms ,  and held her tight .  It was in vain for Madame 
Defarge to struggle and to strike  ;  Miss Pross ,  with the 
vigorous tenacity of love ,  always so much stronger than 
hate ,  clasped her tight ,  and even lifted her from the floor 
in the struggle that they had .  The two hands of Madame 
Defarge buffeted and tore her face ;  but ,  Miss Pross ,  with 
her head down ,  held her round the waist ,  and clung to her 
with more than the hold of a drowning woman .  

Soon ,  Madame Defarges hands ceased to strike ,  and felt at 
her encircled waist .   "  It is under my arm ,  "  said Miss Pross ,  
in smothered tones ,   "  you shall not draw it .  I am stronger 
than you ,  I bless Heaven for it .  Ill hold you till one or 
other of us faints or dies  !   "  

Madame Defarges hands were at her bosom .  Miss Pross 
looked up ,  saw what it was ,  struck at it ,  struck out a flash 
and a crash ,  and stood alone — blinded with smoke .  

All this was in a second .  As the smoke cleared ,  leaving 
an awful stillness ,  it passed out on the air ,  like the soul of 
the furious woman whose body lay lifeless on the ground .  

In the first fright and horror of her situation ,  Miss Pross 
passed the body as far from it as she could ,  and ran down 
the stairs to call for fruitless help .  Happily ,  she bethought 
herself of the consecpiences of what she did ,  in time to 
check herself and go back .  It was dreadful to go in at 
the door again  ;  but ,  she did go in ,  and even went near it ,  
to get the bonnet and other things that she must wear .  
These she put on ,  out on the staircase ,  first shutting and 
locking the door and taking away the key .  She then sat 
down on the stairs a few moments to breathe and to cry ,  
and then got up and hurried away .  

By good fortune she had a veil on her bonnet ,  or she 
could hardly have gone along the streets without being 
stopped .  By good fortune ,  too ,  she was naturally so peculiar 
in appearance as not to show disfigurement like any other 
woman .  She needed both advantages ,  for the marks of 
griping fingers were deep in her face ,  and her hair was torn ,  
and her dress  ( hastily composed with unsteady hands )  was 
clutched and dragged a hundred ways .  

In crossing the bridge ,  she dropped the door key in the 
river .  Arriving at the cathedral some few minutes before 
her escort ,  and waiting there ,  she thought ,  what if the key 
were already taken in a net ,  what if it were identified ,  what 



A FLASH AND A CRASH 409 

if the door were opened and the remains discovered ,  what if 
she were stopped at the gate ,  sent to prison ,  and charged 
with murder  !  In the midst of these fluttering thoughts ,  
the escort appeared ,  took her in ,  and took her away .  

Is there any noise in the streets?  "  she asked him .  

 " The usual noises ,  "  Mr .  Cruncher replied ;  and looked 
surprised by the question and by her aspect .  

I don " t hear vou ,  "  said Miss Pross .   " What do you 
say? "  

It was in vain for Mr .  Cruncher to repeat what he said  ;  
Miss Pross could not hear him .   " So Ill nod my head ,  "  
thought Mr .  Cruncher ,  amazed ,   " at all events shell see 
that .  "  And she did .  

 "  Is there any noise in the streets now ?  "  asked Miss Pross 
again ,  presently .  

Again Mr .  Cruncher nodded his head .  

 "  I dont hear it .  "  

 " Gone deaf in a hour? "  said Mr .  Cruncher ,  ruminating ,  
with his mind much disturbed  ;   "  wots come to her ?  "  

 " I feel ,  "  said Miss Pross ,   " as if there had been a flash 
and a crash ,  and that crash was the last thing I should ever 
hear in this life .  "  

 " Blest if she aint in a queer condition  !   "  said Mr .  Cruncher ,  
more and more disturbed .   "  Wot can she have been a takin ,  
to keep her courage up ? Hark  !  Theres the roll of them 
dreadful carts  !  You can hear that ,  miss ?  "  

 " I can hear ,  "  said Miss Pross ,  seeing that he spoke to 
her ,   " nothing .  0 ,  my good man ,  there was first a great 
crash ,  and then a great stillness ,  and that stillness seems 
to be fixed and unchangeable ,  never to be broken any more 
as long as my life lasts .  "  

 " If she dont hear the roll of those dreadful carts ,  now 
very nigh their journeys end ,  "  said Mr .  Cruncher ,  glancing 
over his shoulder ,   "  its my opinion that indeed she never 
will hear anything else in this world .  "  

And indeed she never did .  



CHAPTER XY 

THE FOOTSTEPS DIE OUT FOR EVER 

Along the Paris streets ,  the death - carts rumble ,  hollow and 
harsh .  Six tumbrils carry the days wine to La Guillotine .  
All the devouring and insatiate Monsters imagined since 
imagination could record itself ,  are fused in the one realisa -  
tion ,  Guillotine .  And yet there is not in France ,  with its 
rich variety of soil and climate ,  a blade ,  a leaf ,  a root ,  a 
sprig ,  a peppercorn ,  which will grow to maturity under 
conditions more certain than those that have produced this 
horror .  Crush humanity out of shape once more ,  under 
similar hammers ,  and it will twist itself into the same 
tortured forms .  Sow the same seed of rapacious licence 
and oppression over again ,  and it will surely yield the same 
fruit according to its kind .  

Six tumbrils roll along the streets .  Change these back 
again to what they were ,  thou powerful enchanter .  Time ,  
and they shall be seen to be the carriages of absolute 
monarchs ,  the equipages of feudal nobles ,  the toilettes of 
flaring Jezebels ,  the churches that are not my fathers house 
but dens of thieves ,  the huts of millions of starving peasants  !  
No  ;  the great magician who majestically works out the 
appointed order of the Creator ,  never reverses his trans -  
formations .   "  If thou be changed into this shape by the 
will of God ,  "  say the seers to the enchanted ,  in the wise 
Arabian stories ,   "  then remain so  !  But ,  if thou wear this 
form through mere passing conjuration ,  then resume thy 
former aspect  !   "  Changeless and hopeless ,  the tumbrils roll 
along .  

As the sombre wheels of the six carts go round ,  they 
seem to plough up a long crooked furrow among the popu -  
lace in the streets .  Ridges of faces are thrown to this side 
and to that ,  and the ploughs go steadily onward .  So used 
are the regular inhabitants of the houses to the spectacle ,  
that in many windows there are no people ,  and in some 



LA GUILLOTINE 411 

the occupation of the hands is not so much as suspended ,  
while the eyes survey the faces in the tumbrils .  Here and 
there ,  the inmate has visitors to see the sight  ;  then he 
points his finger ,  with something of the complacency of 
a curator or authorised exponent ,  to this cart and to this ,  
and seems to tell who sat here yesterday ,  and who there 
the day before .  

Of the riders in the tumbrils ,  some observe these things ,  
and all things on their last roadside ,  with an impassive 
stare  ;  others ,  with a lingering interest in the ways of life 
and men .  Some ,  seated with drooping heads ,  are sunk in 
silent despair  ;  again ,  there are some so heedful of their 
looks that they cast upon the multitude such glances as 
they have seen in theatres ,  and in pictures .  Several close 
their eyes ,  and think ,  or try to get their straying thoughts 
together .  Only one ,  and he a miserable creature ,  of a 
crazed aspect ,  is so shattered and made drunk by horror ,  
that he sings ,  and tries to dance .  Not one of the whole 
number appeals by look or gesture ,  to the pity of the people .  

There is a guard of sundry horsemen riding abreast of the 
tumbrils ,  and faces are often turned up to some of them ,  and 
they are asked some question .  It would seem to be always 
the same question ,  for ,  it is always followed by a press of 
people towards the third cart .  The horsemen abreast of 
that cart ,  frequently point out one man in it with their 
swords .  The leading curiosity is ,  to know which is he  ;  
he stands at the back of the tumbril with his head bent 
down ,  to converse with a mere girl who sits on the side 
of the cart ,  and holds his hand .  He has no curiosity or 
care for the scene about him ,  and always speaks to the girl .  
Here and there in the long street of St .  Honore ,  cries are 
raised against him .  If they move him at all ,  it is only to 
a quiet smile ,  as he shakes his hair a little more loosely 
about his face .  He cannot easily touch his face ,  his arms 
being bound .  

On the steps of a church ,  awaiting the coming - up of the 
tumbrils ,  stands the Spy and prison - sheep .  He looks into 
the first of them : not there .  He looks into the second : 
not there .  He already asks himself ,  Has he sacrificed 
me ?  "  when his face clears ,  as he looks into the third .  

 "  Which is Evremonde ?  "  says a man behind him .  

 "  That .  At the back there .  "  

 " With his hand in the girls? "  



412 A TALE OF TWO CITIES 

 "  Yes .  "  

The man cries ,   "  Down ,  Evremonde  !  To the Guillotine 
all aristocrats  !  Down ,  Evremonde  !   "  

 " Hush ,  hush  !   "  the Spy entreats him ,  timidly .  

 "  And why not ,  citizen ?  "  

 " He is going to pay the forfeit: it will be paid in five 
minutes more .  Let him be at peace .  "  

But the man continuing to exclaim ,   " Down ,  Evremonde !   "  
the face of Evremonde is for a moment turned towards him .  
Evremonde then sees the Spy ,  and looks attentively at him ,  
and goes his way .  

The clocks are on the stroke of three ,  and the furrow 
ploughed among the populace is turning round ,  to come on 
into the place of execution ,  and end .  The ridges thrown to 
this side and to that ,  now crumble in and close behind the 
last plough as it passes on ,  for all are following to the 
Guillotine .  In front of it ,  seated in chairs ,  as in a garden 
of public diversion ,  ai*e a number of women ,  busily knitting .  
On one of the foremost chairs ,  stands The Vengeance ,  looking 
about for her friend .  

 " Therese !  "  she cries ,  in her shrill tones .   " Who has 
seen her ? Therese Defarge  !   "  

 " She never missed before ,  "  says a knitting -  woman of the 
sisterhood .  

 "  No  ;  nor will she miss now ,  "  cries The Vengeance ,  
petulantly .   "  Therese  !   "  

 " Louder ,  "  the woman recommends .  

Ay  !  Louder ,  Vengeance ,  much louder ,  and still she will 
scarcely hear thee .  Louder yet ,  Vengeance ,  with a little 
oath or so added ,  and yet it will hardly bring her .  Send 
other women up and down to seek her ,  lingering somewhere ;  
and yet ,  although the messengers have done dread deeds ,  it 
is questionable whether of their own wills they will go far 
enough to find her  !  

 "  Bad Fortune  !   "  cries The Vengeance ,  stamping her foot 
in the chair ,   " and here are the tumbrils !  And Evremonde 
will be despatched in a wink ,  and she not here  !  See her 
knitting in my hand ,  and her empty chair ready for her .  
I cry with vexation and disappointment  !   "  

As The Vengeance descends from her elevation to do it ,  
the tumbrils begin to discharge their loads .  The ministers 
of Sainte Guillotine are robed and ready .  Crash  !  — A head 
is held up .  and the knitting - women who scarcely lifted their 



THE LITTLE SEAMSTRESS 413 

eyes to look at it a moment ago when it could think and 
speak ,  count One .  

The second tumbril empties and moves on  ;  the third 
comes up .  Crash  !  — And the knitting - women ,  never faltering 
or pausing in their work ,  count Two .  

The supposed Evremonde descends ,  and the seamstress is 
lifted out next after him .  He has not relinquished her 
patient hand in getting out ,  but still holds it as he promised .  
He gently places her with her back to the crashing engine 
that constantly whirrs up and falls ,  and she looks into his 
face and thanks him .  

 " But for you ,  dear stranger ,  I should not be so com -  
posed ,  for I am naturally a poor little thing ,  faint of 
heart  ;  nor should I have been able to raise my thoughts 
to Him who was put to death ,  that we might have hope 
and comfort here to - day .  I think you were sent to me by 
Heaven .  "  

 "  Or you to me ,  "  says Sydney Carton .   " Keep your eyes 
upon me ,  dear child ,  and mind no other object .  "  

 "  I mind nothing while I hold your hand .  I shall mind 
nothing when I let it go ,  if they are rapid .  "  

 "  They will be rapid .  Fear not  !   "  

The two stand in the fast - thinning throng of victims ,  but 
they speak as if they were alone .  Eye to eye ,  voice to voice ,  
hand to hand ,  heart to heart ,  these two children of the 
Universal Mother ,  else so wide apart and differing ,  have 
come together on the dark highway ,  to repair home together ,  
and to rest in her bosom .  

  Brave and generous friend ,  will you let me ask you one 
last question? I am very ignorant ,  and it troubles me— 
just a little .  "  

 " Tell me what it is .  "  

 " I have a cousin ,  an only relative and an orphan ,  like 
myself ,  whom I love very dearly .  She is five years younger 
than I ,  and she lives in a farmers house in the south 
country .  Poverty parted us ,  and she knows nothing of my 
fate — for I cannot write— and if I could ,  how should I tell 
her  !  It is better as it is .  "  

 "  Yes ,  yes  ;  better as it is .  "  

 "  What I have been thinking as we came along ,  and what 
I am still thinking now ,  as I look into your kind strong face 
which gives me so much support ,  is this : — If the Republic 
really does good to the poor ,  and they come to be less 



414 A TALE OF TWO CITIES 

hungry ,  and in all ways to suffer less ,  she may live a long 
time : she may even live to he old .  "  

 " What then ,  my gentle sister? "  

 "  Do you think :  "  the uncomplaining eyes in which there 
is so much endurance ,  fill with tears ,  and the lips part a little 
more and tremble:  " that it will seem long to me ,  while I 
wait for her in the better land where I trust both you and 
I will be mercifully sheltered ?  "  

 "  It cannot be ,  my child  ;  there is no Time there ,  and no 
trouble there .  "  

 "  You comfort me so much  !  I am so ignorant .  Am I to 
kiss you now ? Is the moment come ?  "  

 " Yes .  "  

She kisses his lips  ;  he kisses hers  ;  they solemnly bless 
each other .  The spare hand does not tremble as he releases 
it  ;  nothing worse than a sweet ,  bright constancy is in the 
patient face .  She goes next before him — is gone  ;  the knit -  
ting - women count Twenty - Two .  

I am the Resurrection and the Life ,  saith the Lord: 
he that believeth in me ,  though he were dead ,  yet shall 
he live: and whosoever liveth and believeth in me shall 
never die .  "  

The murmuring of many voices ,  the upturning of many 
faces ,  the pressing on of many footsteps in the outskirts of 
the crowd ,  so that it swells forward in a mass ,  like one 
great heave of water ,  all flashes away .  Twenty - Three .  



They said of him ,  about the city that night ,  that it was 
the peacefulest mans face ever beheld there .  Many added 
that he looked sublime and prophetic .  

One of the most remarkable sufferers by the same axe — 
a woman — had asked at the foot of the same scaffold ,  not 
long before ,  to be allowed to write down the thoughts that 
were inspiring her .  If he had given an utterance to his ,  
and they were prophetic ,  they would have been these : 

 "  I see Barsad ,  and Cly .  Defarge ,  The Vengeance ,  the 
Juryman ,  the Judge ,  long ranks of the new oppressors who 
have risen on the destruction of the old ,  perishing by this 
retributive instrument ,  before it shall cease out of its present 
use .  I see a beautiful city and a brilliant people rising from 
this abyss ,  and ,  in their struggles to be truly free ,  in their 
triumphs and defeats ,  through long long years to come ,  



EXPIATION 415 

I see the evil of this time and of the previous time of which 
this is the natural birth ,  gradually making expiation for 
itself and wearing out .  

 " I see the lives for which I lay clown my life ,  peaceful ,  
useful ,  prosperous and happy ,  in that England which I shall 
see no more .  I see Her with a child upon her bosom ,  who 
bears my name .  I see her father ,  aged and bent ,  but other -  
wise restored ,  and faithful to all men in his healing office ,  
and at peace .  I see the good old man ,  so long their friend ,  
in ten years time enriching them with all he has ,  and pass -  
ing tranquilly to his reward .  

 "  I see that I hold a sanctuary in their hearts ,  and in the 
hearts of their descendants ,  generations hence .  I see her ,  
an old woman ,  weeping for me on the anniversary of this 
day .  I see her and her husband ,  their course done ,  lying 
side by side in their last earthly bed ,  and I know that each 
was not more honoured and held sacred in the others soul ,  
than I was in the souls of both .  

 " I see that child who lay upon her bosom and who bore 
my name ,  a man winning his way up in that path of life 
which once was mine .  I see him winning it so well ,  that 
my name is made illustrious there by the light of his .  
I see the blots I threw upon it ,  faded away .  I see him ,  
foremost of just judges and honoured men ,  bringing a boy 
of my name ,  with a forehead that I know and golden hair ,  
to this place — then fair to look upon ,  with not a trace of 
this days disfigurement— and I hear him tell the child my 
story ,  with a tender and a faltering voice .  

 "  It is a far ,  far better thing that I do ,  than I have ever 
done  ;  it is a far ,  far better rest that I go to than I have 
ever known .  "  



THE END 



The Oxford India Paper Dickens ,  Complete Edition 

With Illustrations by Cruikshank ,  Phiz ,  &c .  

In Seventeen Volumes 



<^A Childs History of England 



i .  



This Edition of the 
COMPLETE WORKS OF CHARLES DICKENS 

7s issued in Seventeen Volumes .  



I .  

II .  
ill .  

IV .  



f a tale of two cities .  
 a childs history of england 
the pickwick papers .  
 (  oliver twist .  

i the uncommercial traveller ,  
[christmas books ,  
•master Humphreys clock .  

 ( the MYSTERY OF EDWIN DROOD .  
{ GREAT EXPECTATIONS .  



VI .  

VII .  

VIII .  

IX .  

X .  

XI .  

XII .  

XIII .  

XIV .  

XV .  

XVI .  

XVII .  



DOMBEY AND SON .  

NICHOLAS NICKLEBY .  

DAVID COPPERFIELD .  

CHRISTMAS STORIES .  

BLEAK HOUSE .  
 ( HARD TIMES ,  ETC .  

AMERICAN NOTES .  
^PICTURES FROM ITALY .  

SKETCHES BY BOZ .  

MARTIN CHUZZLF . WIT .  

THE OLD CURIOSITY SHOP .  

BARNABY R1TDGE .  

LITTLE DORRIT .  

OUR MUTUAL FRIEND .  




DUKE ROBERT OF NORMANDY 



zA Child^s History 
of England 



By 

Charles T ) ickens 



fVith Four Illustrations 

By F .  H .  Townsend and others 



London 
Chapman <fe> Hall A Limited  ;  and 

Hern /  Frowde 

New Torl^: Oxford University Press American Branch 
1 9 - 3 5 West 3 Znd Street 



Frinted by Horace Hart ,  
University Press ,  Oxford 



TABLE OF THE KEIGNS 

BEGINNING WITH KING ALFRED THE GREAT 



THE SAXONS .  



The Reign of Alfred the Great  .  
The Reign of Edward the Elder  .  
The Reign of Athelstan 
The Reigns of the Six Boy - King* 



BEGAN 
8 7 I 

901 

94 



ENDED 
9OI 

9 2 5 
941 
IUl6 



LASTED 

30 yea 1 s .  
24 years .  
16 years .  
75 years .  



THE DANES ,  AND THE RESTORED SAXONS .  

The Reign of Canute  .  .  .  .  .  
The Reign of Harold Harefoot 
The Reign of Hardicanute  .  .  .  .  
The Reign of Edward the Confessor 

The Reign of Harold the Second ,  and the Norman Conquest ,  were 
also within the year 1066 .  



1016 


J035 


19 years 


n >i5 


104U 


5 years 


1040 


1042 


2 years 


1042 


1066 


24 years 



THE NORMANS .  

The Reign of William the First ,  called the  )  _g> 
Conqueror  .  .  .  .  .  .   .  J 

The Keign of William the Second ,  called Rufus 1087 

The Reign of Henry the First ,  called Fine - Scholar iioo 

The Reigns of Matilda and Stephen  .   .  •  " 35 



10X7 



n years .  



IOO 


13 years 


35 


35 years 


54 


19 years 



THE PLANTAGENETS .  



The Reign of Henry the Second  .  

The Reign of Richard the First ,  called the Lion 

Heart  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  

The Reign of John ,  called Lackland  .  

The Reign of Henry the Third 

The Reign of Edward the First ,  called Longshank 

The Reign of Edward the Second 

The Reign of Edward the Third  .  

The Reign of Richard the Second 

The Reign of Henry the Fourth ,  called Holing 

broke  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  

The Reign of Henry the Fifth 
The Reign of Henry the Sixth 
The Reign of Edward the Fourth 
The Keign of Edward the Fifth  .  
The Reign of Richard the Third  .  



1 154 


 !  1 89 


35 years .  


1189 


1 199 


10 years .  


1199 


I2l6 


1 7 years .  


1216 


I272 


56 years .  


1272 


13>7 


35 years .  


1307 


3 2 7 


ji 1 years .  


1327 


 " 377 


50 years .  


1377 


399 


22 years .  


 " 399 


■43 


14 years .  


■413 


1422 


9 years .  


1422 


14n 


39 years .  


1401 


<4 v 3 


j 2 years .  


14S3 


■483 


a few weeks .  


4«3 


1485 


2 years .  



8 



TABLE OF THE REIGNS 



THE TUDORS .  





BKC . AN 


ENDED 


LASTED 


The Reign of Henry the Seventh  .  


1485 


5«9 


24 years .  


The Reign of Henry the Eighth 


■ 5°9 


 " 547 


38 years .  


The Reign of Edward the Sixth  .  


■ «547 


 " 553 


6 years .  


The Reign of Mary  .  .  .  .  .  


1553 


1558 


5 years .  


The Reign of Elizabeth  .  .  .  .  


1558 


1603 


45 years .  


THE STUARTS .  








The Reign of James the First 


1603 


1625 


22 years .  


The Reign of Charles the First  ,  


1625 


1649 


24 years .  


THE COMMONWEALTH .  






The Council of State and Government by Parlia -  


j 1649 


■653 


4 years .  


The Protectorate of Oliver Cromwell  .  


1053 


1658 


5 years .  


The Protectorate of Richard Cromwell 


1658 


1659 


7 months 


The Council of State and Government by Parlia 
ment ,  resumed in  .  .  .  .  


}«6o9 


1660 


13 months 


THE STUARTS RESTORED .  






The Reign of Charles the Second  .  


1660 


168s 


25 years .  


The Reign of James the Second  .  


1685 


1688 


3 years .  


THE REVOLUTION . — 1688 .   ( Comprised in the co 


ncluding chapter 


The Reign of William III .  and Mary II .   .  


1689 


1695 


6 years .  


The Reign of William the Third  .  


 .  


1702 


13 years .  


The Reign of Anne  .  .  .  .  .  


1702 


7H 


12 years .  


The Reign of George the First 


1714 


1727 


13 years .  


The Reign of George the Second  .  


1727 


1760 


33 years .  


The Reign of George the Third  .  


1760 


1820 


60 years .  


The Reign of George the Fourth  .  


l&O 


] S <c > 


10 years .  


The Reign of William the Fourth 


i8<u 


i«37 


7 years .  


The Reign of Victoria 


1837 .  







CHRONOLOGICAL TABLE ,  AND 
TABLE OF CONTENTS 



CHAPTER I rAGE 

Ancient England and the Romans .  From 50 years before Christ ,  

to the year of our Lord 450  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  15 

CHAPTER II 

Ancient England under the early Saxons .  From the year 450 ,  

to the year 871  .  .  .  .  .  .   .   .  25 

CHAPTER III 

England under the good Saxon Alfred ,  and Edward the 

Elder .  From the year 871 ,  to the year 901  .  .  .  30 

CHAPTER IV 

England under Athelstan and the Six Boy - Kings .  From the 

year 925 ,  to the year 1016  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  36 

CHAPTER V 

England under Canute thu Dane .  From the year 1016 ,  to the 

year 1035 47 

CHAPTER VI 

England under Harold Harefoot ,  Hardicanute ,  and Edward 

the Confessor .  From the year 1035 ,  to the year 1066  .  49 

CHAPTER VII 

England under Harold the Second ,  and Conquered by the 

Normans .  All in the same year ,  1066  .  .  .  .  .  57 

CHAPTER VIII 

England under William the First ,  the Norman Conqueror .  

From the year 1066 .  t<> the rear 1087  .  .  .  .  .  61 

 .  3 



IO CHRONOLOGICAL TABLE ,  AND CONTENTS 

CHAPTER IX PAGE 

England under William the Second ,  called Eufus .  From the 

year 1087 ,  to the year 1100  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  68 

CHAPTER X 

England under Henry the First ,  called Fine - Scholar .  From 

the year noo  ;  to the year 1135  .  .  .  .  .  .  75 

CHAPTER XI 

England under Matilda and Stephen .  From the year 1135 ,  to 

the year 1154 85 

CHAPTER XII 

Paris First and Second 

England under Henry the Second .  From the year 1154 ,  to 

the year 1189  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  89 

CHAPTER XIII 

England under Richard the First ,  called the Lion - Heart .  

From the year 1 189 ,  to the year 1199  .  .  .  .  .  108 

CHAPTER XIV 

England under John ,  called Lackland .  From the year 1 199 ,  

to the year 1216  .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   . 117 

CHAPTER XV 

England under Henry the Third ,  called of Winchester .  

From the year 1216 ,  to the year 1272  .  .  .  .  .  129 

CHAPTER XVI 

England under Edward the First ,  called Longshanks .  From 

the year 1272 ,  to the year 1307  .   .  .  .  .  141 

CHAPTER XVII 

England under Edward the Second .  From the year 1307 ,  to 

the year 1327 157 

CHAPTER XVIII 

England under Edward the Third .  From the year 1327 ,  to 

the year 1377 167 



CHRONOLOGICAL TABLE ,  AND CONTENTS II 

CHAPTER XIX PAGE 

England under Richard the Second .  From the year 1377 ,  to 

the year 1399 •  .  .  .  180 

CHAPTER XX 

England under Henry the Fourth ,  called Bolingbrore .  From 

the year 1399 ,  to the year 1413 19 1 

CHAPTER XXI 

Parte First and Second 

England under Henry the Fifth .  From the year 1413 ,  to the 

year 1422  .  .  .  .  .  .  . ••• *97 

CHAPTER XXII 

Parts First ,  Second  ( The Storxj of Joan of Arc )  ,  and Third 
England under Henry the Sixth .  From the year 1422 ,  to the 

year 1461 2 °7 

CHAPTER XXIII 

England under Edward the Fourth .  From the year 1461 ,  to 

the year 1483 22 ^ 

CHAPTER XXIV 

England under Edward the Fifth .  For a few weeks in the 

year 1483 2 3 6 

CHAPTER XXV 

England under Richard the Third .  From the year 1483 ,  to 

the year 1485 2 4 r 

CHAPTER XXVI 

England under Henry the Seventh .  From the year 1485 ,  to 

the year 1509 2 4^ 

CHAPTER XXVII 

England under Henry the Eighth ,  called Bluff King Hal 
am> Burly King Harry .  From the year 1509 ,  to the year 
1533 2 57 

CHAPTER XXVIII 

England under Henry the Eighth .  From the year 1533 ,  to the 

year 1547 2 7 I 



12 CHRONOLOGICAL TABLE ,  AXD CONTENTS 

CHAPTER XXIX rA  ,  .  E 

England under Edward the Sixth .  From the year 1547 ,  to 

the year 1553 281 

CHAPTER XXX 

England under Mary .  From the year 1553 ,  to the year 1558  .  289 

CHAPTER XXXI 

Parts First ,  Second ,  and Third 

England under Elizabeth .  From the year 1558 ,  to the year 

1603 303 

CHAPTER XXXII 
1arts First and Second 
England under James the First .  From the year 1603 .  to the 

year 1625 3 2 8 

CHAPTER XXXIII 
Parts First ,  Second ,  Third ,  and Fourth 
England under Charles the First .  From the year 1625 ,  to 

the year 1649 34 1 

CHAPTER XXXIV 

Parts Fust and Second 
England under Oliver Cromwell .  From the year 1649 .  to the 

year 1660 372 

CHAPTER XXXV 

Parts First and Second 
England under Charles the Second ,  called the Merry 

Monarch .  From the year 1660 ,  to the year 1685  .   .   .  388 

CHAPTER XXXVI 

England under James the Second .  From the year 1685 ,  t "  the 

year 1688 409 

CHAPTER XXX VI I 
Conclusion .  From the year 1688 ,  to the year  - 837  .   .   .  422 



LIST OF ILLUSTRATIONS 

PAfiE 

Duke Robert of Normandy Frontispiece 

Joan of Arc  .   .   .   .  .  .   .  .  .  211 

Catherine was old .  so he fell in love with Anne Boleyn  .  265 
Mary Queen of Scots beading the Death Warrant  .   .  319 



A CHILDS 
HISTORY OF ENGLAND 

CHAPTER I 

ANCIENT ENGLAND AND THE ROMANS 

If you look at a Map of the World ,  you will see ,  in the left -  
hand upper corner of the Eastern Hemisphere ,  two Islands 
lying in the sea .  They ax*e England and Scotland ,  and 
Ireland .  England and Scotland form the greater part of 
these Islands .  Ireland is the next in size .  The little 
neighbouring islands ,  which are so small upon the Map 
as to be mere dots ,  are chiefly little bits of Scotland ,  — 
broken off ,  I dare say ,  in the course of a great length of 
time ,  by the power of the restless water .  

In the old days ,  a long ,  long while ago ,  before Our Saviour 
was born on earth and lay asleep in a manger ,  these Islands 
were in the same place ,  and the stormy sea roared round 
them ,  just as it roars now .  But the sea was not alive ,  then ,  
with great ships and brave sailors ,  sailing to and from all 
parts of the world .  It was very lonely .  The Islands lay 
solitary ,  in the great expanse of water .  The foaming waves 
dashed against their cliffs ,  and the bleak winds blew over 
their forests  ;  but the winds and waves brought no adven -  
turers to land upon the Islands ,  and the savage Islanders 
knew nothing of the rest of the world ,  and the rest of the 
world knew nothing of them .  

It is supposed that the Phoenicians ,  who were an ancient 
people ,  famous for carrying on trade ,  came in ships to these 
Islands ,  and found that they produced tin and lead  ;  both 
very useful things ,  as you know ,  and both produced to this 
very hour upon the sea - coast .  The most celebrated tin mines 



l6 A CHILDS HISTORY OF ENGLAND 

in Cornwall are ,  still ,  close to the sea .  One of them ,  which 
I have seen ,  is so close to it that it is hollowed out under -  
neath the ocean  ;  and the miners say ,  that in stormy weather ,  
when they are at work down in that deep place ,  they can 
hear the noise of the waves thundering above their heads .  
So ,  the Phoenicians ,  coasting about the Islands ,  would come ,  
without much difficulty ,  to where the tin and lead were .  

The Phoenicians traded with the Islanders for these metals ,  
and gave the Islanders some other useful things in exchange .  
The Islanders were ,  at first ,  poor savages ,  going almost 
naked ,  or only dressed in the rough skins of beasts ,  and 
staining their bodies ,  as other savages do ,  with coloured 
earths and the juices of plants .  But the Phoenicians ,  sailing 
over to the opposite coasts of France and Belgium ,  and saying 
to the people there ,   " We have been to those white cliffs 
across the water ,  which you can see in fine weather ,  and 
from that country ,  which is called Britain ,  we bring this 
tin and lead ,  "  tempted some of the French and Belgians to 
come over also .  These people settled themselves on the 
south coast of England ,  which is now called Kent  ;  and ,  
although they were a rough people too ,  they taught the 
savage Britons some useful arts ,  and improved that part 
of the Islands .  It is probable that other people came over 
from Spain to Ireland ,  and settled there .  

Thus ,  by little and little ,  strangers became mixed with 
the Islanders ,  and the savage Britons grew into a wild bold 
people  ;  almost savage ,  still ,  especially in the interior of the 
country away from the sea where the foreign settlers seldom 
went  ;  but hardy ,  brave ,  and strong .  

The whole country was covered with forests ,  and swamps .  
The greater part of it was very misty and cold .  There were 
no roads ,  no bridges ,  no streets ,  no houses that you would 
think deserving of the name .  A town was nothing but 
a collection of straw - covered huts ,  hidden in a thick wood ,  
with a ditch all round ,  and a low wall ,  made of mud .  or the 
trunks of trees placed one upon another .  The people planted 
little or no corn ,  but lived upon the flesh of their flocks and 
cattle .  They made no coins ,  but used metal rings for money .  
They were clever in basket - work ,  as savage people often are  ;  
and they could make a coarse kind of cloth ,  and some very 
bad earthenware .  But in building fortresses they were much 
more clever .  

They made boats of basket - work ,  covered with the skins 



ENGLAND UNDER THE ROMANS 17 

of animals ,  but seldom ,  if ever ,  ventured far from the shore .  
They made swords ,  of copper mixed with tin  ;  but .  these 
swords were of an awkward shape ,  and so soft that a heavy 
blow would bend one .  They made light shields ,  short 
pointed daggers ,  and spears — which they jerked back after 
they had thrown them at an enemy ,  by a long strip of 
leather fastened to the stem .  The butt - end was a rattle ,  
to frighten an enemys horse .  The ancient Britons ,  being 
divided into as many as thirty or forty tribes ,  each commanded 
by its own little king ,  were constantly fighting with one 
another ,  as savage people usually do  ;  and they always 
fought with these weapons .  

They were very fond of horses .  The standard of Kent 
was the picture of a white horse .  They could break them 
in and manage them wonderfully well .  Indeed ,  the horses 
 ( of which they had an abundance ,  though they were rather 
small )  were so well taught in those clays ,  that they can 
scarcely be said to have improved since  ;  though the men 
are so much wiser .  They understood ,  and obeyed ,  every 
word of command  ;  and would stand still by themselves .  
in all the din and noise of battle ,  while their masters went 
to fight on foot .  The Britons could not have succeeded 
in their most remarkable art .  without the aid of these 
sensible and trusty animals .  The art I mean ,  is the con -  
struction and management of war - chariots or cars ,  for which 
they have ever been celebrated in history .  Each of the best 
sort of these chariots ,  not quite breast high in front ,  and 
open at the back ,  contained one man to drive ,  and two 
or three others to fight— all standing up .  The horses who 
drew them were so well trained ,  that they would tear ,  at full 
gallop ,  over the most stony ways ,  and even through the 
woods  ;  clashing down their masters enemies beneath their 
hoofs ,  and cutting them to pieces with the blades of swords .  
or scythes ,  which were fastened to the wheels ,  and stretched 
out beyond the car on each side ,  for that cruel purpose .  In 
a moment ,  while at full speed ,  the horses would stop ,  at the 
drivers command .  The men within would leap out .  deal 
blows about them with their swords like hail ,  hap on the 
horses ,  on the pole ,  spring back into the chariots any -  
how  ;  and .  as soon as they were safe ,  the horses tore away 
again .  

The Britons had a strange and terrible religion ,  called the 
Religion bf the Druids .  It seems to have been brought 



1 8 A CHILDS HISTORY OF ENGLAND 

over ,  in very early times indeed ,  from the opposite country 
of France ,  anciently called Gaul ,  and to have mixed up the 
worship of the Serpent ,  and of the Sun and Moon ,  with the 
worship of some of the Heathen Gods and Goddesses .  Most 
of its ceremonies were kept secret by the priests ,  the Druids ,  
who pretended to be enchanters ,  and who carried magicians 
wands ,  and wore ,  each of them ,  about his neck ,  what he told 
the ignorant people was a Serpents egg in a golden case .  
But it is certain that the Druidical ceremonies included the 
sacrifice of human victims ,  the torture of some suspected 
criminals ,  and ,  on particular occasions ,  even the burning 
alive ,  in immense wicker cages ,  of a number of men and 
animals together .  The Druid Priests had some kind of 
veneration for the Oak ,  and for the mistletoe — the same 
plant that we hang up in houses at Christmas Time now — 
when its white berries grew upon the Oak .  They met 
together in dark woods ,  which they called Sacred Groves  ;  
and there they instructed ,  in their mysterious arts ,  young 
men who came to them as pupils ,  and who sometimes stayed 
with them as long as twenty years .  

These Druids built great Temples and altars ,  open to the 
sky ,  fragments of some of which are yet remaining .  Stone -  
henge ,  on Salisbury Plain ,  in Wiltshire ,  is the most extra -  
ordinary of these .  Three curious stones ,  called Kits Coty 
House ,  on Bluebell Hill ,  near Maidstone ,  in Kent ,  form 
another .  We know ,  from examination of the great blocks 
of which such buildings are made ,  that they could not have 
been raised without the aid of some ingenious machines ,  
which are common now ,  but which the ancient Britons 
certainly did not use in making their own uncomfortable 
houses .  I should not wonder if the Druids ,  and their 
pupils who stayed with them twenty years ,  knowing more 
than the rest of the Britons ,  kept the people out of sight 
while they made these buildings ,  and then pretended that 
they built them by magic .  Perhaps they had a hand in the 
fortresses too  ;  at all events ,  as they were very powerful ,  and 
very much believed in ,  and as they made and executed the 
laws ,  and paid no taxes ,  I dont wonder that they liked their 
trade .  And ,  as they persuaded the people the more Druids 
there were ,  the better off the people would be ,  I dont wonder 
that there were a good many of them .  But it is pleasant to 
think that there are no Druids ,  now ,  who go on in that 
way ,  and pretend to carry Enchanters Wands and Serpents 



ENGLAND UNDER THE ROMANS 19 

Eggs — and of course there is nothing of the kind ,  any -  
where .  

Such was the improved condition of the ancient Britons ,  
fifty - five years before the birth of Our Saviour ,  when the 
Romans ,  under their great General ,  Julius Caesar ,  were 
masters of all the rest of the known world .  Julius Caesar 
had then just conquered Gaul  ;  and hearing ,  in Gaul ,  a good 
deal about the opposite Island with the white cliffs ,  and 
about the bravery of the Britons who inhabited it — some 
of whom had been fetched over to help the Gauls in the 
war against him — he resolved ,  as he was so near ,  to come 
and conquer Britain next .  

So ,  Julius Caesar came sailing over to this Island of ours ,  
with eighty vessels and twelve thousand men .  And he came 
from the French coast between Calais and Boulogne ,   "  because 
thence was the shortest passage into Britain  ;   "  just for the 
same reason as our steam - boats now take the same track ,  
every day .  He expected to conquer Britain easily : but it 
was not such easy work as he supposed — for the bold Britons 
fought most bravely  ;  and ,  what with not having his horse -  
soldiers with him  ( for they had been driven back by a storm )  ,  
and what with having some of his vessels dashed to pieces 
by a high tide after they were drawn ashore ,  he ran great 
risk of being totally defeated .  However ,  for once that the 
bold Britons beat him ,  he beat them twice  ;  though not so 
soundly but that he was very glad to accept their proposals 
of peace ,  and go away .  

But ,  in the spring of the next year ,  he came back  ;  this 
time ,  with eight hundred vessels and thirty thousand men .  
The British tribes chose ,  as their general - in - chief ,  a Briton ,  
whom the Romans in their Latin language called Cassivel -  
launus ,  but whose British name is supposed to have been 
Caswallon .  A brave general he was ,  and well he and his 
soldiers fought the Roman army  !  So well ,  that whenever 
in that war the Roman soldiers saw a great cloud of dust ,  
and heard the rattle of the rapid British chariots ,  they 
trembled in their hearts .  Besides a number of smaller 
battles ,  there was a battle fought near Canterbury ,  in Kent  ;  
there was a battle fought near Chert sey ,  in Surrey  ;  there 
was a battle fought near a marshy little town in a wood ,  
the capital of that part of Britain which belonged to 
Cassivellaunus ,  and which was probably near what is 
now Saint Albans ,  in Hertfordshire .  However ,  brave 



20 A CHILDS HISTORY OF ENf4LAND 

Cassivellaunus had the worst of it ,  on the whole  ;  though 
he and his men always fought like lions .  As the other 
British chiefs were jealous of him ,  and were always quarrel -  
ling with him ,  and with one another ,  he gave up ,  and proposed 
peace .  Julius Caesar was very glad to grant peace easily ,  
and to go away again with all his remaining ships and men .  
He had expected to find pearls in Britain ,  and he may have 
found a few for anything I know  ;  but ,  at all events ,  he 
found delicious oysters ,  and I am sure he found tough 
Britons —of whom ,  I dare say ,  he made the same complaint 
as Napoleon Bonaparte the great French General did .  eighteen 
hundred years afterwards ,  when he said they were such 
unreasonable fellows that they never knew when they 
were beaten .  They never did know ,  I believe ,  and never 

will .  

Nearly a hundred years passed on ,  and all that time ,  there 

was peace in Britain .  The Britons improved their towns 

and mode of life : became more civilised ,  travelled ,  and learnt 

a great deal from the Gauls and Romans .  At last ,  the 

Roman Emperor ,  Claudius ,  sent Aulus Plautius .  a skilful 

general ,  with a mighty force ,  to subdue the Island ,  and 

shortly afterwards arrived himself .  They did little  ;  and 

Ostorius Scapula ,  another general ,  came .  Some of the 

British Chiefs of Tribes submitted .  Others resolved to fight 

to the death .  Of these brave men ,  the bravest was Carac -  

tacus ,  or Caradoc ,  who gave battle to the Romans ,  with his 

army ,  among the mountains of North Wales .   "  This day .  

said he to his soldiers ,   decides the fate of Britain  !  Your 

liberty ,  or your eternal slavery ,  dates from this hour .  

Remember your brave ancestors ,  who drove the great Caesar 

himself across the sea  !   "  On hearing these words ,  his men ,  

with a great shout ,  rushed upon the Romans .  But the 

strong Roman swords and armour were too much for the 

weaker British weapons in close conflict .  The Britons lost 

the day .  The wife and daughter of the brave Caracta< sub 

were taken prisoners  ;  his brothers delivered themselves up  ;  

he himself was betrayed into the hands of the Romans by 

his false and base step - mother : and they carried him .  and 

all his family ,  in triumph to Rome .  

But a great man will be great in misfortune ,  great in 
prison ,  great in chains .  His noble air ,  and dignified en -  
durance of distress ,  so touched the Roman people who 
thronged the streets to see him ,  that lie and his family were 



ENGLAND UNDER THE ROMANS 21 

restored to freedom .  No one knows  - whether his great heart 
broke ,  and lie died in Rome ,  or whether he ever returned to 
his own dear country .  English oaks have grown up from 
acorns ,  and withered away ,  when they were hundreds of 
years old — and other oaks have sprung up in their places ,  
and died too .  very aged — since the rest of the histoiy of the 
brave Caractacus was forgotten .  

Still ,  the Britons would not yield .  They rose again and 
again ,  and died by thousands ,  sword in hand .  They rose ,  
on every possible occasion .  Suetonius ,  another Roman 
general ,  came ,  and stormed the Island of Anglesey  ( then 
called Moxa )  .  which was supposed to be sacred ,  and he 
burnt the Druids in their own wicker cages ,  by their own 
fires .  But .  even while he was in Britain ,  with his victorious 
troops ,  the Britons rose .  Because Boadicea ,  a British 
queen ,  the widow of the King of the Norfolk and Suffolk 
people ,  resisted the plundering of her property by the 
Romans who were settled in England ,  she was scourged ,  
by order of Catus a Roman officer  ;  and her two daughters 
were shamefully insulted in her presence ,  and her husbands 
relations were made slaves .  To avenge this injury ,  the 
Britons rose ,  with all their might and rage .  They drove 
Catus into Gaul : they laid the Roman possessions waste  ;  
they forced the Romans out of London ,  then a poor little 
town ,  but a trading place  ;  they hanged ,  burnt ,  crucified ,  
and slew by the sword ,  seventy thousand Romans in a few 
days .  Suetonius strengthened his army ,  and advanced 
to give them battle .  They strengthened their army ,  and 
desperately attacked his .  on the field where it was strongly 
posted .  Before the first charge of the Britons was made ,  
Boadicea ,  in a war - chariot ,  with her fair hair streaming in 
the wind ,  and her injured daughters lying at her feet ,  drove 
among the troops ,  and cried to them for vengeance on their 
oppressors ,  the licentious Romans .  The Britons fought to 
the last  ;  but they were vanquished with great slaughter ,  
and the unhappy queen took poison .  

Still ,  the spirit of the Britons was not broken .   " When 
Suetonius left the country ,  they fell upon his troops ,  and 
retook the Island of Anglesey .  Agricola came ,  fifteen or 
twenty years afterwards ,  and retook it once more ,  and 
devoted seven years to subduing the country ,  especially that 
part of it which is now called Scotland  ;  but ,  its people ,  the 
Caledonians ,  resisted him at every inch of ground .  They 



22 A CHILD S HISTORY OF ENGLAND 

fought the bloodiest battles with him  ;  they killed their very 
wives and children ,  to prevent his making prisoners of them ;  
they fell ,  fighting ,  in such great numbers that certain hills 
in Scotland are yet supposed to be vast heaps of stones piled 
up above their graves .  Hadrian came ,  thirty years after -  
wards ,  and still they resisted him .  Severus came ,  nearly 
a hundred years afterwards ,  and they worried his great army 
like dogs ,  and rejoiced to see them die ,  by thousands ,  in the 
bogs ancl swamps .  Caracalla ,  the son and successor of 
Severus ,  did the most to conquer them ,  for a time  ;  but not 
by force of arms .  He knew how little that would do .  He 
yielded up a quantity of land to the Caledonians ,  and gave 
the Britons the same privileges as the Eomans possessed .  
There was peace ,  after this ,  for seventy years .  

Then new enemies arose .  They were the Saxons ,  a fierce ,  
seafaring people from the countries to the North of the 
Rhine ,  the great river of Germany on the banks of which 
the best grapes grow to make the German wine .  They 
began to come ,  in pirate ships ,  to the sea - coast of Gaul and 
Britain ,  and to plunder them .  They were repulsed by 
Carausius ,  a native either of Belgium or of Britain ,  who 
was appointed by the Romans to the command ,  and under 
whom the Britons first began to fight upon the sea .  But ,  
after this time ,  they renewed their ravages .  A few years 
more ,  and the Scots  ( which was then the name for the 
people of Ireland )  ,  and the Picts ,  a northern people ,  began 
to make frequent plundering incursions into the South of 
Britain .  All these attacks were repeated ,  at intervals ,  
during two hundred years ,  and through a long succession 
of Roman Emperors and chiefs  ;  during all which length of 
time ,  the Britons rose against the Romans ,  over and over 
again .  At last ,  in the days of the Roman Honorius ,  when 
the Roman power all over the world was fast declining ,  and 
when Rome wanted all her soldiers at home ,  the Romans 
abandoned all hope of conquering Britain ,  and went away .  
And still ,  at last ,  as at first ,  the Britons rose against them ,  
in their old brave manner  ;  for ,  a very little while before ,  
they had turned away the Roman magistrates ,  and declared 
themselves an independent people .  

Five hundred years had passed ,  since Julius Caesars first 
invasion of the Island ,  when the Romans departed from it 
for ever .  In the course of that time ,  although they had 
been the cause of terrible fighting and bloodshed ,  they had 



ENGLAND UNDER THE ROMANS 23 

done much to improve the condition of the Britons .  They 
had made great military roads  ;  they had built forts  ;  they 
had taught them how to dress ,  and arm themselves ,  much 
better than they had ever known how to do before  ;  they 
had refined the whole British way of living .  Agricola had 
built a great wall of earth ,  more than seventy miles long ,  
extending from Newcastle to beyond Carlisle ,  for the pur -  
pose of keeping out the Picts and Scots  ;  Hadrian had 
strengthened it  ;  Severus ,  finding it much in want of repair ,  
had built it afresh of stone .  Above all ,  it was in the 
Roman time ,  and by means of Roman ships ,  that the 
Christian Religion was first brought into Britain ,  and its 
people first taught the great lesson that ,  to be good in the 
sight of God ,  they must love their neighbours as themselves ,  
and do unto others as they would be done by .  The Druids 
declared that it was very wicked to believe in any such 
thing ,  and cursed all the people who did believe it ,  very 
heartily .  But ,  when the people found that they were none 
the better for the blessings of the Druids ,  and none the 
worse for the curses of the Druids ,  but ,  that the sun shone 
and the rain fell without consulting the Druids at all ,  they 
just began to think that the Druids were mere men ,  and 
that it signified very little whether they cursed or blessed .  
After which ,  the pupils of the Druids fell off greatly  . in 
numbers ,  and the Druids took to other trades .  

Thus I have come to the end of the Roman time in 
England .  It is but little that is known of those five 
hundred years  ;  but some remains of them are still found .  
Often ,  when labourers are digging up the ground ,  to make 
foundations for houses or churches ,  they light on rusty 
money that once belonged to the Romans .  Fragments of 
plates from which they ate ,  of goblets from which they 
drank ,  and of pavement on which they trod ,  are discovered 
among the earth that is broken by the plough ,  or the dust 
that is crumbled by the gardeners spade .  Wells that the 
Romans sunk ,  still yield water  ;  roads that the Romans 
made ,  form part of our highways .  In some old battle - fields ,  
British spear - heads and Roman armour have been found ,  
mingled together in decay ,  as they fell in the thick pressure 
of the fight .  Traces of Roman camps overgrown with grass ,  
and of mounds that are the burial - places of heaps of Britons ,  
are to be seen in almost all parts of the country .  Across 
the bleak moors of Northumberland ,  the wall of Severus ,  



24 A CHILD S HISTORY OF ENGLAND 

overrun with moss and weeds ;  still stretches ,  a strong ruin  ;  
and the shepherds and their dogs lie sleeping on it in the 
summer weather .  On Salisbury Plain .  Stonehenge yet 
stands : a monument of the earlier time when the Roman 
name was unknown in Britain ,  and when the Druids ,  with 
their best magic wands ,  could not have written it in the 
sands of the wild sea - shore .  



CHAPTER II 

ANCIENT ENGLAND UNDER THE EARLY SAXONS 

The Romans had scarcely gone away from Britain ,  when 
the Britons began to wish they had never left it .  For ,  the 
Romans being gone ,  and the Britons being much reduced 
in numbers by their long wars ,  the Picts and Scots came 
pouring in ,  over the broken and unguarded wall of Severus ,  
in swarms .  They plundered the richest towns ,  and killed 
the people  ;  and came back so often for more booty and 
more slaughter ,  that the unfortunate Britons lived a life of 
terror .  As if the Picts and Scots were not bad enough on 
land ,  the Saxons attacked the islanders by sea  ;  and ,  as if 
something more were still wanting to make them miser -  
able ,  they quarrelled bitterly among themselves as to what 
prayers they ought to say ,  and how they ought to say them .  
The priests ,  being very angry with one another on these 
questions ,  cursed one another in the heartiest manner  ;  and 
 ( uncommonly like the old Druids )  cursed all the people 
whom they could not persuade .  So ,  altogether ,  the Britons 
were very badly off ,  you may believe .  

They were in such distress ,  in short ,  that they sent a letter 
to Rome entreating help — which they called the Groans of 
the Britons  ;  and in which they said ,   "  The barbarians chase 
us into the sea ,  the sea throws us back upon the barbarians ,  
and we have only the hard choice left us of perishing by the 
sword ,  or perishing by the waves .  "  But ,  the Romans could 
not help them ,  even if they were so inclined  ;  for they had 
enough to do to defend themselves against their own enemies ,  
who were then very fierce and strong .  At last ,  the Britons ,  
unable to bear their hard condition any longer ,  resolved to 
make peace with the Saxons ,  and to invite the Saxons to 
come into their country ,  and help them to keep out the 
Picts and Scots .  

It was a British Prince named Voktigekn who took this 



26 A CHILDS HISTORY OF ENGLAND 

resolution ,  and who made a treaty of friendship with Hengist 
and Horsa ,  two Saxon chiefs .  Both of these names ,  in the 
old Saxon language ,  signify Horse  ;  for the Saxons ,  like 
many other nations in a rough state ,  were fond of giving 
men the names of animals ,  as Horse ,  Wolf ,  Bear ,  Hound .  
The Indians of North America ,  — a very inferior people to 
the Saxons ,  though — do the same to this day .  

Hengist and Horsa drove out the Picts and Scots  ;  and 
Vortigern ,  being grateful to them for that service ,  made 
no opposition to their settling themselves in that part of 
England which is called the Isle of Thanet ,  or to their in -  
viting over more of their countrymen to join them .  But 
Hengist had a beautiful daughter named Rowena  ;  and 
when ,  at a feast ,  she rilled a golden goblet to the brim with 
wine ,  and gave it to Vortigern .  saying in a sweet voice ,  
 "  Dear King ,  thy health  !   "  the King fell in love with her .  
My opinion is ,  that the cunning Hexgist meant him to do 
so ,  in order that the Saxons might have greater influence 
with him : and that the fair Rowexa came to that feast ,  
golden goblet and all .  on purpose .  

At any rate ,  they were married  ;  and .  long afterwards ,  
whenever the King was angry with the Saxons ,  or jealous 
of their encroachments ,  Rowexa would put her beautiful 
arms round his neck ,  and softly say .  • " Dear King ,  they are 
my people  !  Be favourable to them ,  as you loved that 
Saxon girl who gave you the golden goblet of wine at the 
feast  !   "  And ,  really ,  I dont see how the King could help 
himself .  

Ah  !  We must all die  !  In the course of years .  Vortigern 
died — he was dethroned ,  and put in prison ,  first .  I am 
afraid  ;  and Row t ena died  ;  and generations of Saxons and 
Britons died  ;  and events that happened during a long ,  long 
time ,  would have been  ( mite forgotten but for the tales 
and songs of the old Bards ,  who used to go about from feast 
to feast ,  with then white beards ,  recounting the deeds of 
their forefathers .  Among the histories of which they sang 
and talked ,  there was a famous one .  concerning the bravery 
and virtues of King Arthur ,  supposed to have been a British 
Prince in those old times .  But .  whether such a person 
really lived ,  or whether there were several persons whose 
histories came to be confused together under that one name ,  
or whether all about him was invention ,  no one knows .  

I will tell you ,  shortly ,  what i^ most interesting in the 



ENGLAND UNDER THE EARLY SAXONS 27 

early Saxon times ,  as they are described in these songs and 
stories of the Bards .  

In ,  and long after ,  the days of Vortigern .  fresh bodies 
of Saxons ,  under various chiefs ,  came pouring into Britain .  
One body ,  conquering the Britons in the East ,  and settling 
there ,  called their kingdom Essex  ;  another body settled in 
the West ,  and called their kingdom Wessex  ;  the Northfolk .  
or Norfolk people ,  established themselves in one place  ;  the 
Southfolk ,  or Suffolk people ,  established themselves in 
another  ;  and gradually seven kingdoms or states arose in 
England ,  which were called the Saxon Heptarchy .  The 
poor Britons ,  falling back before these crowds of fighting 
men whom they had innocently invited over as friends ,  
retired into Wales and the adjacent countiy  ;  into Devon -  
shire ,  and into Cornwall .  Those parts of England long 
remained unconquered .  And in Cornwall now — where the 
sea - coast is very gloomy ,  steep ,  and rugged — where ,  in the 
dark winter - time ,  ships have often been wrecked close to 
the land ,  and every soul on board has perished — where the 
winds and waves howl drearily ,  and split the solid rocks 
into arches and caverns — there are very ancient ruins ,  which 
the people call the ruins of King Arthurs Castle .  

Kent is the most famous of the seven Saxon kingdoms ,  
because the Christian religion was preached to the Saxons 
there  ( who domineered over the Britons too much ,  to care 
for what they said about their religion ,  or anything else )  by 
Augustine ,  a monk from Eome .  King Ethelbert ,  of 
Kent ,  was soon converted  ;  and the moment he said he was 
a Christian ,  his courtiers all said they were Christians  ;  after 
which ,  ten thousand of his subjects said they were Christians 
too .  Augustine built a little church ,  close to this Kings 
palace ,  on the ground now occupied by the beautiful cathedral 
of Canterbury .  Sebert ,  the Kings nephew ,  built on a 
muddy marshy place near London ,  where there had been 
a temple to Apollo ,  a church dedicated to Saint Peter ,  which 
is now Westminster Abbey .  And ,  in London itself ,  on the 
foundation of a temple to Diana ,  he built another little 
church which has risen up .  since that old time ,  to be Saint 
Pauls .  

After the death of Ethelbert ,  Edwin ,  King of North -  
umbria .  who was such a good king that it was said a woman 
or child might openly cany a purse of gold ,  in his reign ,  
without fear ,  allowed his child to be baptised ,  and held 



28 A CHILDS HISTORY OF ENGLAND 

a great council to consider whether he and his people should 
all be Christians or not .  It was decided that they should 
be .  Coin ,  the chief priest of the old religion ,  made a great 
speech on the occasion .  In this discourse ,  he told the 
people that he had found out the old gods to be impostors .  
 "  I am quite satisfied of it ,  "  he said .   "  Look at me  !  I have 
been serving them all my life ,  and they have done nothing 
for me  ;  whereas ,  if they had been really powerful ,  they 
could not have decently done less ,  in return for all I have 
done for them ,  than make my fortune .  As they have never 
made my fortune ,  I am quite convinced they are im -  
postors  !   "  When this singular priest had finished speaking ,  
he hastily armed himself with sword and lance ,  mounted 
a war - horse ,  rode at a furious gallop in sight of all the 
people to the temple ,  and flung his lance against it as an 
insult .  From that time ,  the Christian religion spread itself 
among the Saxons ,  and became their faith .  

The next very famous prince was Egbert .  He lived 
about a hundred and fifty years afterwards ,  and claimed to 
have a better right to the throne of Wessex than Beortric ,  
another Saxon prince who was at the head of that kingdom ,  
and who married Edburga ,  the daughter of Offa ,  king of 
another of the seven kingdoms .  This Queen Edburga was 
a handsome murderess ,  who poisoned people when they 
offended her .  One day ,  she mixed a cup of poison for a 
certain noble belonging to the court  ;  but her husband 
drank of it too ,  by mistake ,  and died .  Upon this ,  the people 
revolted ,  in great crowds  ;  and running to the palace ,  and 
thundering at the gates ,  cried ,  Down with the wicked 
queen ,  who poisons men  !   "  They drove her out of the 
country ,  and abolished the title she had disgraced .  When 
years had passed away ,  some travellers came home from 
Italy ,  and said that in the town of Pa via they had seen 
a ragged beggar - woman ,  who had once been handsome ,  but 
was then shrivelled ,  bent ,  and yellow ,  wandering about the 
streets ,  crying for bread  ;  and that this beggar - woman was 
the poisoning English queen .  It was ,  indeed ,  Edburga  ;  
and so she died ,  without a shelter for her wretched head .  

Egbert ,  not considering himself safe in England ,  in con -  
sequence of his having claimed the crown of Wessex  ( for he 
thought his rival might take him prisoner and put him to 
death )  ,  sought refuge at the court of Charlemagne .  King of 
France .  On the death of Beortric ,  so unhappily poisoned 



ENGLAND UNDER THE EARLY SAXONS 29 

by mistake ,  Egeert came back to Britain  ;  succeeded to tbe 
throne of Wessex  ;  conquered some of the other monarchs 
of the seven kingdoms  ;  added their territories to his own  ;  
and ,  for the first time ,  called the country over which he 
ruled ,  England .  

And now ,  new enemies arose ,  who ,  for a long time ,  troubled 
England sorely .  These were the Northmen ,  the people of 
Denmark and Norway ,  whom the English called the Danes .  
They were a warlike people ,  quite at home upon the sea  ;  
not Christians  ;  very daring and cruel .  They came over in 
ships ,  and plundered and burned wheresoever they landed .  
Once ,  they beat Egbert in battle .  Once ,  Egbert beat them .  
But ,  they cared no more for being beaten than the English 
themselves .  In the four following short reigns ,  of Ethel -  
wulf ,  and his sons ,  Ethelbald ,  Ethelbert ,  and Ethelred .  
they came back ,  over and over again ,  burning and plunder -  
ing ,  and laying England waste .  In the last - mentioned reign ,  
they seized Edmund ,  King of East England ,  and bound him 
to a tree .  Then ,  they proposed to him that he should change 
his religion  ;  but he ,  being a good Christian ,  steadily refused .  
Upon that ,  they beat him ,  made cowardly jests upon him ,  
all defenceless as he was ,  shot arrows at him ,  and ,  finally ,  
struck off his head .  It is impossible to say whose head 
they might have struck off next ,  but for the death of King 
Ethelred from a wound he had received in fighting against 
them ,  and the succession to his throne of tbe best and 
wisest king that ever lived in England .  



CHAPTER III 

ENGLAND UNDER THE GOOD SAXON ,  ALFRED 

Alfred the Great was a young man ,  three - and - twenty years 
of age ,  when he became king .  Twice in his childhood ,  he 
had been taken to Rome ,  where the Saxon nobles were in 
the habit of going on journeys which they supposed to be 
religious  ;  and ,  once ,  he had stayed for some time in Paris .  
Learning ,  however ,  was so little cared for ,  then ,  that at 
twelve years old he had not been taught to read  ;  although ,  
of the sons of King Ethelwulf ,  he ,  the youngest ,  was the 
favourite .  But he had — as most men who grow up to be 
great and good are generally found to have had — an ex -  
cellent mother  ;  and ,  one day ,  this lady ,  whose name was 
Osburga ,  happened ,  as she was sitting among her sons ,  to 
read a book of Saxon poetry .  The art of printing was not 
known until long and long after that period ,  and the book ,  
which was written ,  was what is called  "  illuminated ,  "  with 
beautiful bright letters ,  richly painted .  The brothers ad -  
miring it very much ,  their mother said ,   " I will give it to 
that one of you four princes who first learns to read .  "  
Alfred sought out a tutor that very day ,  applied himself to 
learn with great diligence ,  and soon won the book .  He 
was proud of it ,  all his life .  

This great king ,  in the first year of his reign ,  fought nine 
battles with the Danes .  He made some ti - eaties with them 
too ,  by which the false Danes swore they would quit the 
country .  They pretended to consider that they had taken 
a very solemn oath ,  in swearing this upon the holy bracelets 
that they wore ,  and which were always buried with them 
when they died  ;  but they cared little for it ,  for they thought 
nothing of breaking oaths and treaties too ,  as soon as it 
suited their purpose ,  and coming back again to fight ,  plunder ,  
and burn ,  as usual .  One fatal winter ,  in the fourth year 
of King Alfreds reign ,  they spread themselves in great 
numbers over the whole of England  ;  and so dispersed and 



ALFRED THE GREAT 3 I 

routed the Kings soldiers that the King was left alone ,  and 
was obliged to disguise himself as a common peasant ,  and 
to take refuge in the cottage of one of his cowherds who 
did not know his face .  

Here ,  King Alfred ,  while the Danes sought him far and 
near ,  was left alone one day .  by the cowherds wife ,  to watch 
some cakes which she put to bake upon the hearth .  But ,  
being at work upon his bow and arrows ,  with which he 
hoped to punish the false Danes when a brighter time 
should come ,  and thinking deeply of his poor unhappy 
subjects whom the Danes chased through the land ,  his noble 
mind forgot the cakes ,  and they were burnt .   " What !  "  
said the cowherds wife ,  who scolded him well when she 
came back ,  and little thought she was scolding the King ,  
 " you will be ready enough to eat them by - and - by ,  and yet 
you cannot watch them ,  idle dog ?  "  

At length ,  the Devonshire men made head against a new 
host of Danes who landed on their coast  ;  killed their chief ,  
and captured their flag  ;  on which was represented the like -  
ness of a Eaven — a very fit bird for a thievish army like 
that ,  I think .  The loss of their standard troubled the Danes 
greatly ,  for they believed it to be enchanted — woven by the 
three daughters of one father in a single afternoon — and 
they had a stoiy among themselves that when they were 
victorious in battle ,  the Raven stretched his wings and 
seemed to fly  ;  and that when they were defeated ,  he would 
droop .  He had good reason to droop ,  now ,  if he could have 
done anything half so sensible  ;  for ,  King Alfred joined 
the Devonshire men  ;  made a camp with them on a piece of 
firm ground in the midst of a bog in Somersetshire  ;  and 
prepared for a great attempt for vengeance on the Danes ,  
and the deliverance of his oppressed people .  

But ,  first ,  as it was important to know how numerous 
those pestilent Danes were ,  and how they were fortified ,  
King Alfred ,  being a good musician ,  disguised himself as 
a glee - man or minstrel ,  and went ,  with his harp ,  to the 
Danish camp .  He played and sang in the very tent of 
Guthrum the Danish leader ,  and entertained the Danes as 
they caroused .  While he seemed to think of nothing but 
his music ,  he was watchful of their tents ,  their arms ,  their 
discipline ,  everything that he desired to know .  And right 
soon did this great king entertain them to a different tune  ;  
for ,  summoning all his true followers to meet him at an 



32 A CHILD S HISTORY OP ENGLAND 

 . appointed place ,  where they received him with joyful shouts 
and tears ,  as the monarch whom many of them had given 
up for lost or dead ,  he put himself at their head ,  marched 
on the Danish camp ,  defeated the Danes with great slaughter ,  
and besieged them for fourteen days to prevent their escape .  
But ,  being as merciful as he was good and brave ,  he then ,  
instead of killing them ,  proposed peace : on condition that 
they should altogether depart from that Western part of 
England ,  and settle in the East  ;  and that Guthrum should 
become a Christian ,  in remembrance of the Divine religion 
which now taught his conqueror ,  the noble Alfred ,  to 
forgive the enemy who had so often injured him .  This ,  
Guthrum did .  At his baptism ,  King Alfred was his god -  
father .  And Guthrum was an honourable chief who well 
deserved that clemency  ;  for ,  ever afterwards he was loyal 
and faithful to the king .  The Danes under him were faithful 
too .  They plundered and burned no more ,  but worked like 
honest men .  They ploughed ,  and sowed ,  and reaped ,  and 
led good honest English lives .  And I hope the children of 
those Danes played ,  many a time ,  with Saxon children in 
the sunny fields  ;  and that Danish young men fell in love 
with Saxon girls ,  and married them  ;  and that English 
travellers ,  benighted at the doors of Danish cottages ,  often 
went in for shelter until morning  ;  and that Danes and 
Saxons sat by the red fire ,  friends ,  talking of King Alfred 
the Great .  

All the Danes were not like these under Guthrum  ;  for ,  
after some years ,  more of them came over ,  in the old 
plundering and burning way — among them a fierce pirate 
of the name of Hastings ,  who had the boldness to sail up 
the Thames to Gravesend ,  with eighty ships .  For three 
years ,  there was a war with these Danes  ;  and there was 
a famine in the country ,  too ,  and a plague ,  both upon 
human creatures and beasts .  But King Alfred ,  whose 
mighty heart never failed him ,  built large ships nevertheless ,  
with which to pursue the pirates on the sea  ;  and he 
encouraged his soldiers ,  by his brave example ,  to fight 
valiantly against them on the shore .  At last ,  he drove 
them all away  ;  and then there was repose in England .  

As great and good in peace ,  as he was great and good in 
war ,  King Alfred never rested from his labours to improve 
his people .  He loved to talk with clever men ,  and with 
travellers from foreign countries ,  and to write down what 



ALFRED THE GREAT 33 

they told him ,  for his people to read .  He had studied Latin 
after learning to read English ,  and now another of his 
labours was ,  to translate Latin books into the English - Saxon 
tongue ,  that his people might be interested ,  and improved 
by their contents .  He made just laws ,  that they might live 
more happily and freely  ;  he turned away all partial judges ,  
that no wrong might be clone them  ;  he was so careful of 
their property ,  and punished robbers so severely ,  that it was 
a common thing to say that under the great King Alfred ,  
garlands of golden chains and jewels might have hung across 
the streets ,  and no man would have touched one .  He 
founded schools  ;  he patiently heard causes himself in his 
Court of Justice  ;  the great desires of his heart were ,  to do 
right to all his subjects ,  and to leave England better ,  wiser ,  
happier in all ways ,  than he found it .  His industry in these 
efforts was quite astonishing .  Every day he divided into 
certain portions ,  and in each portion devoted himself to 
a certain pursuit .  That he might divide his time exactly ,  
he had wax torches or candles made ,  which were all of the 
same size ,  were notched across at regular distances ,  and 
were always kept burning .  Thus ,  as the candles burnt 
down ,  he divided the day into notches ,  almost as accurately 
as we now divide it into hours upon the clock .  But when 
the candles were first invented ,  it was found that the wind 
and draughts of air ,  blowing into the palace through the 
doors and windows ,  and through the chinks in the walls ,  
caused them to gutter and burn unequally .  To prevent this ,  
the King had them put into cases formed of wood and white 
horn .  And these were the first lanthorns ever made in 
England .  

All this time ,  he was afflicted with a terrible unknown 
disease ,  which caused him violent and frequent pain that 
nothing could relieve .  He bore it ,  as he had borne all the 
troubles of his life ,  like a brave good man .  until he was 
fifty - three years old  ;  and then ,  having reigned thirty years ,  
he died .  He died in the year nine hundred and one  ;  but ,  
long ago as that is ,  his fame ,  and the love and gratitude with 
which his subjects regarded him ,  are freshly remembered to 
the present hour .  

In the next reign ,  which was the reign of Edward ,  sur -  

named The Elder ,  who was chosen in council to succeed ,  

a nephew of Kino Alfred troubled the country by trying to 

obtain the throne .  The Danes in the East of England took 

1 .  p 



34 A CHILD S HISTORY OF ENGLAND 

part with this usurper  ( perhaps because they had honoured 
his uncle so much ,  and honoured him for his uncles sake )  ,  
and there was hard fighting  ;  but ,  the King ,  with the assis -  
tance of his sister ,  gained the day ,  and reigned in peace for 
four and twenty years .  He gradually extended his power 
over the whole of England ,  and so the Seven Kingdoms 
were united into one .  

When England thus became one kingdom ,  ruled over by 
one Saxon king ,  the Saxons had been settled in the country 
more than four hundred and fifty years .  Great changes had 
taken place in its customs during that time .  The Saxons 
were still greedy eaters and great drinkers ,  and their feasts 
were often of a noisy and drunken kind  ;  but many new 
comforts and even elegances had become known ,  and were 
fast increasing .  Hangings for the walls of rooms ,  where ,  in 
these modern days ,  we paste up paper ,  are known to have 
been sometimes made of silk ,  ornamented with birds and 
flowers in needlework .  Tables and chairs were curiously 
carved in different woods  ;  were sometimes decorated with 
gold or silver ;  sometimes even made of those precious 
metals .  Knives and spoons were used at table  ;  golden 
ornaments were worn— with silk and cloth ,  and golden 
tissues and embroideries  ;  dishes were made of gold and 
silver ,  brass and bone .  There were varieties of drinking -  
horns ,  bedsteads ,  musical instruments .  A harp was passed 
round ,  at a feast ,  like the drinking - bowl ,  from guest to guest  ;  
and each one usually sang or played when his turn came .  
The weapons of the Saxons were stoutly made ,  and among 
them was a terrible iron hammer that gave deadly blows ,  
and was long remembered .  The Saxons themselves were 
a handsome people .  The men were proud of their long fair 
hair ,  parted on the forehead  ;  their ample beards ,  their fresh 
complexions ,  and clear eyes .  The beauty of the Saxon 
women filled all England with a new delight and grace .  

I have more to tell of the Saxons yet ,  but I stop to say 
this now ,  because under the Great Alfred ,  all the best 
points of the English - Saxon character were first encouraged ,  
and in him first shown .  It has been the greatest character 
among the nations of the earth .   " Wherever the descendants 
of the Saxon race have gone ,  have sailed ,  or otherwise made 
their way ,  even to the remotest regions of the world ,  they 
have been patient ,  persevering ,  never to be broken in spirit ,  
never to be turned aside from enterprises on which they 



ALFRED THE GREAT 35 

have resolved .  In Europe ,  Asia ,  Africa ,  America ,  the whole 
world over  ;  in the desert ,  in the forest ,  on the sea  ;  scorched 
by a burning sun ,  or frozen by ice that never melts  ;  the 
Saxon blood remains unchanged .  Wheresoever that race 
goes ,  there ,  law ,  and industry ,  and safety for life and 
property ,  and all the great results of steady perseverance ,  
are certain to arise .  

I pause to think with admiration ,  of the noble king who .  
in his single person ,  possessed all the Saxon virtues .  Whom 
misfortune could not subdue ,  whom prosperity could not 
spoil ,  whose perseverance nothing could shake .  Who was 
hopeful in defeat ,  and generous in success .  Who loved 
justice ,  freedom ,  truth ,  and knowledge .  Who ,  in his care 
to instruct his people ,  probably did more to preserve the 
beautiful old Saxon language ,  than I can imagine .  Without 
whom ,  the English tongue in which I tell this story might 
have wanted half its meaning .  As it is said that his spirit 
still inspires some of our best English laws ,  so ,  let you and 
I pray that it may animate our English hearts ,  at least to 
this — to resolve ,  when we see any of our fellow - creatures 
left in ignorance ,  that we will do our best ,  while life is in 
us ,  to have them taught  ;  and to tell those rulers whose 
duty it is to teach them ,  and who neglect their duty ,  that 
they have profited very little by all the years that have 
rolled away since the year nine hundred and one ,  and that 
they are far behind the bright example of King Alfred the 
Great .  



CHAPTER IV 

ENGLAND UNDER ATHELSTAN AND THE SIX BOY - KINGS 

Athelstan ,  the son of Edward the Elder ,  succeeded that 
king .  He reigned only fifteen years  ;  hut he remembered 
the glory of his grandfather ,  the great Alfred ,  and governed 
England well .  He reduced the turbulent people of Wales ,  
and obliged them to pay him a tribute in money ,  and in 
cattle ,  and to send him their best hawks and hounds .  He 
was victorious over the Cornish men ,  who were not yet quite 
under the Saxon government .  He restored such of the old 
laws as were good ,  and had fallen into disuse  ;  made some 
wise new laws ,  and took care of the poor and weak .  A strong 
alliance ,  made against him by Anlaf a Danish prince ,  Con -  
stantine King of the Scots ,  and the people of North Wales ,  
he broke and defeated in one great battle ,  long famous for 
the vast numbers slain in it .  After that ,  he had a quiet 
reign  ;  the lords and ladies about him had leisure to become 
polite and agreeable  ;  and foreign princes were glad  ( as they 
have sometimes been since )  to come to England on visits 
to the English court .  

 -  When Athelstan died ,  at forty - seven years old .  his brother 
Edmund ,  who was only eighteen ,  became king .  He was 
the first of six boy - kings ,  as you will presently know .  

They called him the Magnificent ,  because he showed a 
taste for improvement and refinement .  But he was beset 
by the Danes ,  and had a short and troubled reign ,  which 
came to a troubled end .  One night ,  when he was feasting 
in his hall ,  and had eaten much and drunk deep ,  he saw ,  
among the company ,  a noted robber named Leof ,  who had 
been banished from England .  Made very angry by the 
boldness of this man ,  the King turned to his cup - bearer ,  
and said ,   " There is a robber sitting at the table yonder ,  
who ,  for his crimes ,  is an outlaw in the land— a hunted 
wolf ,  whose life any man may take ,  at any time .  Command 
that robber to depart !  "   " I will not depart  !  "  said Leof .  



ATHELSTAN AND THE SIX BOY - KINGS 37 

 "  No ?  "  cried the King .   "  No ,  by the Lord  !   "  said Leof .  
Upon that the King rose from his seat ,  and ,  making 
passionately at the robber ,  and seizing him by his long 
hair ,  tried to throw him down .  But the robber had a 
dagger underneath his cloak ,  and ,  in the scuffle ,  stabbed 
the King to death .  That done ,  he set his back against the 
wall ,  and fought so desperately ,  that although he was soon 
cut to pieces by the Kings armed men .  and the wall and 
pavement were splashed with his blood ,  yet it was not 
before he had killed and wounded many of them .  You 
may imagine what rough lives the kings of those times led ,  
when one of them could struggle ,  half drunk ,  with a public 
robber in his own dining - hall ,  and be stabbed in presence of 
the company who ate and drank with him .  

Then succeeded the boy - king Edred ,  who was weak and 
sickly in body ,  but of a strong mind .  And his armies fought 
the Northmen ,  the Danes ,  and Norwegians ,  or the Sea -  
Kings ,  as they were called ,  and beat them for the time .  
And ,  in nine years ,  Edred died ,  and passed away .  

Then came the boy - king Edwy ,  fifteen years of age  ;  but 
the real king ,  who had the real power ,  was a monk named 
Dunstan — a clever priest ,  a little mad ,  and not a little proud 
and cruel .  

Dunstan was then Abbot of Glastonbury Abbey ,  whither 
the body of King Edmund the Magnificent was carried ,  to 
be buried .  While yet a boy ,  he had got out of his bed one 
night  ( being then in a fever )  ,  and walked about Glastonbury 
Church when it was under repair  ;  and ,  because he did not 
tumble off some scaffolds that were there ,  and break his 
neck ,  it was reported that he had been shown over the 
building by an angel .  He had also made a harp that was 
said to play of itself — which it very likely did ,  as JEotian 
Harps ,  which are played by the wind ,  and are understood 
now ,  always do .  For these wonders he had been once 
denounced by his enemies ,  who were jealous of his favour 
with the late King Athelstan ,  as a magician  ;  and he had 
been waylaid ,  bound hand and foot ,  and thrown into a 
marsh .  But he got out again ,  somehow ,  to cause a great 
deal of trouble yet .  

The priests of those days were ,  generally ,  the only scholars .  
They were learned in many things .  Having to make their 
own convents and monasteries on uncultivated grounds that 
were granted to them by the Crown ,  it was necessary that 



38 A CHILDS HISTORY OF ENGLAND 

they should be good farmers and good gardeners ,  or their 
lands would have been too poor to support them .  For the 
decoration of the chapels where they prayed ,  and for the 
comfort of the refectories where they ate and drank ,  it was 
necessary that there should be good carpenters ,  good smiths ,  
good painters ,  among them .  For their greater safety in 
sickness and accident ,  living alone by themselves in solitary 
places ,  it was necessary that they should study the virtues 
of plants and herbs ,  and should know how to dress cuts ,  
burns ,  scalds ,  and bruises ,  and how to set broken limbs .  
Accordingly ,  they taught themselves ,  and one another ,  a 
great variety of useful arts  ;  and became skilful in agri -  
culture ,  medicine ,  surgery ,  and handicraft .  And when 
they wanted the aid of any little piece of machinery ,  which 
would be simple enough now ,  but was marvellous then ,  to 
impose a trick upon the poor peasants ,  they knew very well 
how to make it  ;  and did make it many a time and often ,  
I have no doubt .  

Dunstan ,  Abbot of Glastonbury Abbey ,  was one of the 
most sagacious of these monks .  He was an ingenious smith ,  
and worked at a forge hi a little cell .  This cell was made 
too short to admit of his lying at full length when he went 
to sleep — as if that did any good to anybody  !  — and he used 
to tell the most extraordinary lies about demons and spirits ,  
who ,  he said ,  came there to persecute him .  For instance ,  
he related that one day when he was at work ,  the devil 
looked in at the little window ,  and tried to tempt him to 
lead a life of idle pleasure  ;  whereupon ,  having his pincers 
in the fire ,  red hot ,  he seized the devil by the nose ,  and put 
him to such pain ,  that his bellowings were heard for miles 
and miles .  Some people are inclined to think this nonsense 
a part of Dunstans madness  ( for his head never quite 
recovered the fever )  ,  but I think not .  I observe that it 
induced the ignorant people to consider him a holy man ,  
and that it made him very powerful .  Which was exactly 
what he always wanted .  

On the day of the coronation of the handsome boy - king 
Edwy .  it was remarked by Odo .  Archbishop of Canterbury 
 ( who was a Dane by birth )  ,  that the King cpiietly left the 
coronation feast ,  while all the company were there .  Odo ,  
much displeased ,  sent his friend Dunstan to seek him .  
Dunstan finding him in the company of his beautiful young 
wife Eluiva ,  and her mother Etheluiva ,  a good and virtuous 



ATHELSTAN AND THE SIX BOY - KINGS 39 

lady ,  not only grossly abused them ,  but dragged the young 
King back into the feasting - hall by force .  Some ,  again ,  think 
Dunstan did this because the young Kings fair wife  " was his 
own cousin ,  and the monks objected to people marrying 
their own cousins  ;  but I believe he did it .  because he was 
an imperious ,  audacious ,  ill - conditioned priest ,  who .  having 
loved a young lady himself before he became a sour monk ,  
hated all love now ,  and everything belonging to it .  

The young King was quite old enough to feel this insult .  
Dunstan had been Treasurer in the last reign ,  and he soon 
charged Dunstan with having taken some of the last kings 
money .  The Glastonbury Abbot fled to Belgium  ( very 
narrowly escaping some pursuers who were sent to put out 
his eyes ,  as you will wish they had ,  when you read what 
follows )  ,  and his abbey was given to priests who were 
married  ;  whom he always ,  both before and afterwards ,  
opposed .  But he quickly conspired with his friend ,  Odo 
the Dane ,  to set up the Kings young brother ,  Edgar ,  as 
his rival for the throne  ;  and ,  not content with this revenge ,  
he caused the beautiful queen Elgiva ,  though a lovely girl 
of only seventeen or eighteen ,  to be stolen from one of the 
Koyal Palaces ,  branded in the cheek with a red - hot iron ,  
and sold into slavery in Ireland .  But the Irish people 
pitied and befriended her ;  and they said .  Let us restore 
the girl - queen to the boy - king ,  and make the young lovers 
happy  !   "  and they cured her of her cruel wound ,  and sent 
her home as beautiful as before .  But the villain Dunstan ,  
and that other villain ,  Odo ,  caused her to be waylaid at 
Gloucester as she was joyfully hurrying to join her husband ,  
and to be hacked and hewn with swords ,  and to be barbar -  
ously maimed and lamed ,  and left to die .  When Edwy 
the Fair  ( his people called him so ,  because he was so young 
and handsome )  heard of her dreadful fate ,  he died of a 
broken heart  ;  and so the pitiful story of the poor young 
wife and husband ends  !  Ah  !  Better to be two cottagers 
in these better times ,  than king and queen of England in 
those bad days ,  though never so fair  !  

Then came the boy - king ,  Edgar ,  called the Peaceful ,  fifteen 
years old .  Dunstan ,  being still the real king ,  drove all 
married priests out of the monasteries and abbeys ,  and 
replaced them by solitary monks like himself ,  of the rigid 
order called the Benedictines .  He made himself Archbishop 
of Canterbury ,  for his greater glory  ;  and exercised such 



40 A CHILD S HISTORY OF ENGLAND 

power over the neighbouring British princes ,  and so collected 
them about the King ,  that once ,  when the King held his 
court at Chester ,  and went on the  . river Dee to visit the 
monastery of St .  John ,  the eight oars of his boat were 
pulled  ( as the people used to delight in relating in stories 
and songs )  by eight crowned kings ,  and steered by the King 
of England .  As Edgar was very obedient to Dunstan and 
the monks ,  they took great pains to represent him as the 
best of kings .  But he was really profligate ,  debauched ,  and 
vicious .  He once forcibly carried off a young lady from the 
convent at Wilton  ;  and Dunstan ,  pretending to be very 
much shocked ,  condemned him not to wear his crown 
upon his head for seven years — no great punishment^ I dare 
say ,  as it can hardly have been a more comfortable orna -  
ment to wear ,  than a stewpan without a handle .  His 
marriage with his second wife ,  Elfkida ,  is one of the 
worst events of his reign .  Hearing of the beauty of this 
lady ,  he despatched his favourite courtier .  Athelwold ,  to 
her fathers castle in Devonshire ,  to see if she were really 
as charming as fame reported .  Now ,  she was so exceedingly 
beautiful that Athelwold fell in love with her himself ,  and 
married her  ;  but he told the King that she was only rich — 
not handsome .  The King ,  suspecting the truth when they 
came home ,  resolved to pay the newly - married couple a visit  ;  
and ,  suddenly ,  told Athelwold to prepare for his immediate 
coming .  Athelwold ,  terrified ,  confessed to his young wife 
what he had said and done ,  and implored her to disguise her 
beauty by some ugly dress or silly manner ,  that he might 
be safe from the Kings anger .  She promised that she 
would  ;  but she was a proud woman ,  who would far rather 
have been a queen than the wife of a courtier .  She dressed 
herself in her best dress ,  and adorned herself with her richest 
jewels  ;  and when the King came ,  presently ,  he discovered 
the cheat .  So ,  he caused his false friend .  Athelwold ,  to be 
murdered in a wood ,  and married his widow ,  this bad 
Elfrida .  Six or seven years afterwards ,  he died  ;  and was 
buried ,  as if he had been all that the monks said he was ,  
in the abbey of Glastonbury ,  which he— or Dunstan for 
him —had much enriched .  

England ,  in one part of this reign ,  was so troubled by 
wolves ,  which ,  driven out of the open country ,  hid them -  
selves in the mountains of Wales when they were not 
attacking travellers and animals ,  that the tribute payable 



ATHELSTAN AND THE SIX BOY - KINGS 41 

by the Welsh people was forgiven them ,  011 condition of 
their producing ,  every year ,  three hundred wolves heads .  
And the Welshmen were so sharp upon the wolves ,  to save 
their money ,  that in four years there was not a wolf left .  

Then came the boy - king ,  Edward ,  called the Martyr ,  
from the manner of his death .  Elfrida had a son ,  named 
Ethelred ,  for whom she claimed the throne  ;  but Dunstan 
did not choose to favour him ,  and he made Edward king .  
The boy was hunting ,  one day ,  down in Dorsetshire ,  when 
he rode near to Corfe Castle ,  where Elfrida and Ethelred 
lived .  Wishing to see them kindly ,  he rode away from his 
attendants and galloped to the castle gate ,  where he arrived 
at twilight ,  and blew his hunting - horn .   "  You are welcome ,  
dear King ,  "  said Elfrida ,  coming out ,  with her brightest 
smiles .   "  Pray you dismount and enter .  "   "  Not so ,  dear 
madam ,  "  said the King .   "  My company will miss me ,  and 
fear that I have met with some harm .  Please you to give me 
a cup of wine ,  that I may drink here ,  in the saddle ,  to you and 
to my little brother ,  and so ride away with the good speed 
I have made in riding here .  "  Elfrida ,  going in to bring the 
wine ,  whispered to an armed servant ,  one of her attendants ,  
who stole out of the darkening gateway ,  and crept round 
behind the Kings horse .  As the King raised the cup to 
his lips ,  saying ,  • Health  !   "  to the wicked woman who was 
smiling on him ,  and to his innocent brother whose hand she 
held in hers ,  and who was only ten years old ,  this armed 
man made a spring and stabbed him in the back .  He dropped 
the cup and spurred his horse away  ;  but ,  soon fainting with 
loss of blood ,  drooped from the saddle ,  and ,  in his fall ,  en -  
tangled one of his feet in the stirrup .  The frightened horse 
dashed on  ;  trailing his riders curls upon the ground  ;  
dragging his smooth young face through ruts ,  and stones ,  
and briers ,  and fallen leaves ,  and mud  ;  until the hunters ,  
tracking the animals course by the Kings blood ,  caught his 
bridle ,  and released the disfigured body .  

Then came the sixth and last of the boy - kings ,  Ethelred ,  
whom Elfrida ,  when he cxied out at the sight of his murdered 
brother riding away from the castle gate ,  unmercifully beat 
with a torch which she snatched from one of the attendants .  
The people so disliked this boy ,  on account of his cruel 
mother and the murder she had done to promote him ,  that 
Dunstan would not have had him for king ,  but would have 
made Edgitha ,  the daughter of the dead Kong Edgar ,  and 
1 .  p 3 



42 A CHILD S HISTORY OF ENGLAND 

of the lady whom he stole out of the convent at Wilton ,  
Queen of England ,  if she would have consented .  But she 
knew the stories of the youthful kings too well ,  and would 
not be persuaded from the convent where she lived in peace  ;  
so ,  Dunstan put Ethelred on the throne ,  having no one else 
to put there and gave him the nickname of The Unkeady — 
knowing that he wanted resolution and firmness .  

At first ,  Elfrida possessed great influence over the young 
King ,  but ,  as he grew older and came of age ,  her influence 
declined .  The infamous woman ,  not having it in her power 
to do any more evil ,  then retired from court ,  and ,  according 
to the fashion of the time ,  built churches and monasteries ,  to 
expiate her guilt .  As if a church ,  with a steeple reaching to 
the very stars ,  would have been any sign of true repentance 
for the blood of the poor boy ,  whose murdered form was 
trailed at his horses heels  !  As if she could have buried her 
wickedness beneath the senseless stones of the whole world ,  
piled up one upon another ,  for the monks to live in  !  

About the ninth or tenth year of this reign ,  Dunstan died .  
He was growing old then ,  but was as stern and artful as 
ever .  Two circumstances that happened in connexion with 
him ,  in this reign of Ethelred ,  made a great noise .  Once ,  
he was present at a meeting of the Church ,  when the question 
was discussed whether priests should have permission to 
marry  ;  and ,  as he sat with his head hung down ,  apparently 
thinking about it ,  a voice seemed to come out of a crucifix 
in the room ,  and warn the meeting to be of his opinion .  
This was some juggling of Dunstans .  and was probably his 
own voice disguised .  But he played off a worse juggle than 
that ,  soon afterwards  ;  for ,  another meeting being held on 
the same subject ,  and he and his supporters being seated on 
one side of a great room ,  and their opponents on the other ,  
he rose and said ,   "  To Christ himself ,  as Judge ,  do I commit 
this cause  !   "  Immediately on these words being spoken ,  
the floor where the opposite party sat gave way ,  and some 
were killed and many wounded .  You may be pretty sure 
that it had been weakened under Dunstans direction ,  and 
that it fell at Dunstans signal .  His part of the floor did not 
go down .  No ,  no .  He was too good a workman for that .  

When he died ,  the monks settled that he was a Saint ,  and 
called him Saint Dunstan ever afterwards .  They might just 
as well have settled that he was a coach - horse ,  and could 
just as easily have called him one .  



ATHELSTAN AND THE SIX BOY - KINGS 43 

Ethelred the Unready was glad enough ,  I dare say ,  to be 
rid of this holy saint  ;  but ,  left to himself ,  he was a poor 
weak king ,  and his reign was a reign of defeat and shame .  
The restless Danes ,  led by Sweyn ,  a son of the King of 
Denmark who had quarrelled with his father and had been 
banished from home ,  again came into England ,  and ,  year 
after year ,  attacked and despoiled large towns .  To coax 
these sea - kings away ,  the weak Ethelred paid them money  ;  
but ,  the more money he paid ,  the more money the Danes 
wanted .  At first ,  he gave them ten thousand pounds  ;  on 
their next invasion ,  sixteen thousand pounds  ;  on their next 
invasion ,  four and twenty thousand pounds : to pay which 
large sums ,  the unfortunate English people were heavily 
taxed .  But ,  as the Danes still came back and wanted more ,  
he thought it would be a good plan to marry into some 
powerful foreign family that would help him with soldiers .  
So ,  in the year one thousand and two ,  he courted and married 
Emma ,  the sister of Kichard Duke of Normandy  ;  a lady who 
was called the Flower of Normandy .  

And now ,  a terrible deed was done in England ,  the like 
of which was never done on English ground before or since .  
On the thirteenth of November ,  in pursuance of secret in -  
structions sent by the King over the whole country ,  the 
inhabitants of every town and city armed ,  and murdered all 
the Danes who were their neighbours .  Young and old ,  
babies and soldiers ,  men and women ,  every Dane was killed .  
No doubt there were among them many ferocious men 
who had done the English great wrong ,  and whose pride and 
insolence ,  in swaggering in the houses of the English and 
insulting their wives and daughters ,  had become unbearable  ;  
but no doubt there were also among them many peaceful 
Christian Danes who had married English women and 
become like English men .  They were all slain ,  even to 
Gunhilda ,  the sister of the King of Denmark ,  married 
to an English lord  ;  who was first obliged to see the 
murder of her husband and her child ,  and then was killed 
herself .  

When the King of the sea - kings heard of this deed of 
blood ,  he swore that he would have a great revenge .  lie 
raised an army ,  and a mightier fleet of ships than ever yet 
had sailed to England  ;  and in all his army there was not 
a slave or an old man ,  but every soldier was a free man ,  and 
the son of a free man ,  and in the prime of* life ,  and sworn to 



44 A CHILD S HISTORY OF ENGLAND 

be revenged upon the English nation ,  for the massacre of 
that dread thirteenth of November ,  when his countrymen 
and countrywomen ,  and the little children whom they loved ,  
were killed with fire and sword .  And so ,  the sea - kings came 
to England in many great ships ,  each bearing the flag of its 
own commander Golden eagles ,  ravens ,  dragons ,  dolphins ,  
beasts of prey ,  threatened England from the prows of those 
ships ,  as they came onward through the water  ;  and were 
reflected in the shining shields that hung upon their sides .  
The ship that bore the standaid of the King of the sea - kings 
was carved and painted like a mighty serpent  ;  and the King 
in his anger prayed that the Gods in whom he trusted might 
all desert him ,  if his serpent did not strike its fangs into 
Englands heart .  

And indeed it did .  For ,  the great army landing from the 
great fleet ,  near Exeter ,  went forward ,  laying England waste ,  
and striking their lances in the earth as they advanced ,  or 
throwing them into rivers ,  in token of their making all 
the island theirs .  In remembrance of the black November 
night when the Danes were murdered ,  wheresoever the 
invaders came ,  they made the Saxons prepare and spread for 
them great feasts  ;  and when they had eaten those feasts ,  
and had drunk a curse to England with wild rejoicings ,  
they drew their swords ,  and killed their Saxon entertainers ,  
and marched on .  For six long years they carried on this 
war : burning the crops ,  farmhouses ,  barns ,  mills ,  granaries  ;  
killing the labourers in the fields  ;  preventing the seed from 
being sown in the ground  ;  causing famine and starvation  ;  
leaving only heaps of ruin and smoking ashes ,  where they 
had found rich towns .  To crown this misery ,  English officers 
and men deserted ,  and even the favourites of Ethelred the 
Unready ,  becoming traitors ,  seized many of the English 
ships ,  turned pirates against their own country ,  and aided 
by a storm occasioned the loss of nearly the whole English 
navy .  

There was but one man of note ,  at this miserable pass ,  
who was true to his country and the feeble King .  He was 
a priest ,  and a brave one .  For twenty days ,  the Archl >ishop 
of Canterbury defended that city against its Danish be -  
siegers  ;  and when a traitor in the town threw the gates 
open and admitted them ,  he said ,  in chains ,   " I will not 
buy my life with money that must be extorted from the 
suffering people .  Do with me what you please  !   "  Again 



ATHELSTAN AND THE SIX BOY - KINGS 45 

and again ,  he steadily refused to purchase his release with 
gold wrung from the poor .  

At last ,  the Danes being tired of this ,  and being assembled 
at a drunken merry - making ,  had him brought into the 
feasting - hall .  

 "  Now ,  bishop ,  "  they said ,   " we want gold  !   "  

He looked round on the crowd of angry faces  ;  from the 
shaggy beards close to him ,  to the shaggy beards against 
the walls ,  where men were mounted on tables and forms to 
see him over the heads of others : and he knew that his 
time was come .  

 "  I have no gold ,  "  he said .  

 "  Get it ,  bishop  !   "  they all thundered .  

 "  That ,  I have often told you I will not ,  "  said he .  

They gathered closer round him ,  threatening ,  but he stood 
unmoved .  Then ,  one man struck him  ;  then ,  another  ;  then 
a cursing soldier picked up from a heap in a corner of the 
hall ,  where fragments had been rudely thrown at dinner ,  
a great ox - bone ,  and cast it at his face ,  from which the blood 
came spurting forth  ;  then ,  others ran to the same heap ,  and 
knocked him down with other bones ,  and bruised and 
battered him  ;  until one soldier whom he had baptised 
 ( willing ,  as I hope for the sake of that soldiers soul ,  to 
shorten the sufferings of the good man )  struck him dead with 
his battle - axe .  

If Ethel red had had the heart to emulate the courage of 
this noble archbishop ,  he might have done something yet .  
But he paid the Danes forty - eight thousand pounds ,  instead ,  
and gained so little by the cowardly act ,  that Sweyn soon 
afterwards came over to subdue all England .  So broken 
was the attachment of the English people ,  by this time ,  to 
their incapable King and their forlorn country which could 
not protect them ,  that they welcomed Sweyn on all sides ,  as 
a deliverer .  London faithfully stood out ,  as long as the 
King was within its walls  ;  but ,  when he sneaked away ,  it 
also welcomed the Dane .  Then ,  all was over  ;  and the King -  
took refuge abroad with the Duke of Normandy ,  who had 
already given shelter to the Kings wife ,  once the Flower of 
that country ,  and to her children .  

Still ,  the English people ,  in spite of their sad sufferings ,  
could not quite forget the great King Alfred and the Saxon 
race .  When Sweyn died suddenly ,  in little more than 
a month after he had been proclaimed King of England ,  they 



46 A CHILDS HISTOPY OF ENGLAJTO 

generously sent to Ethelred ,  to say that they would have 
him for their King again ,   "  if he would only govern them 
better than he had governed them before .  "  The Unready ,  
instead of coming himself ,  sent Edward ,  one of his sons ,  to 
make promises for him .  At last ,  he followed ,  and the 
English declared him King .  The Danes declared Canute .  
the son of Sweyn ,  King .  Thus ,  direful war began again ,  
and lasted for three years ,  when the Unready died .  And 
I know of nothing better that he did ,  in all his reign of 
eight and thirty years .  

Was Canute to be King now? Not over the Saxons ,  
they said  ;  they must have Edmund ,  one of the sons of the 
Unready ,  who was surnamed Ironside ,  because of his strength 
and stature .  Edmund and Canute thereupon fell to ,  and 
fought five battles — unhappy England ,  what a fighting -  
ground it was  !  — and then Ironside ,  who was a big man .  
proposed to Canute ,  who was a little man ,  that they two 
should fight it out in single combat .  If Canute had been 
the big man ,  he would probably have said yes ,  but .  being 
the little man ,  he decidedly said no .  However ,  he declared 
that he was willing to divide the kingdom — to take all that 
lay north of Watling Street ,  as the old Eoman military road 
from Dover to Chester was called ,  and to give Ironside all 
that lay south of it .  Most men being weaiy of so much 
bloodshed ,  this was done .  But Canute soon became sole 
King of England  ;  for Ironside died suddenly within two 
months .  Some think that he was killed ,  and killed by 
Canutes orders .  No one knows .  



CHAPTER V 

ENGLAND UNDER CANUTE THE DANE 

Canute reigned eighteen years .  He was a merciless King 
at first .  After he had clasped the hands of the Saxon chiefs ,  
in token of the sincerity with which he swore to be just 
and good to them in return for their acknowledging him .  
he denounced and slew many of them ,  as well as many 
relations of the late King .   " He who brings me the head 
of one of my enemies ,  "  he used to say ,   "  shall be dearer to 
me than a brother .  "  And he was so severe in hunting down 
his enemies ,  that he must have got together a pretty large 
family of these dear brothers .  He was strongly inclined to 
kill Edmund and Edward ,  two children ,  sons of poor Iron -  
side  ;  but ,  being afraid to do so in England ,  he sent them 
over to the King of Sweden ,  with a request that the King 
would be so good as  " dispose of them .  "  If the King of 
Sweden had been like many ,  many other men of that day ,  
he would have had their innocent throats cut  ;  but he was 
a kind man ,  and brought them up tenderly .  

Normandy ran much in Canutes mind .  In Normandy 
were the two children of the late king— Edward and Alfred 
by name  ;  and their uncle the Duke might one day claim 
the crown for them .  But the Duke showed so little inclina -  
tion to do so now ,  that he proposed to Canute to marry his 
sister ,  the widow of The Unready  ;  who ,  being but a showy 
flower ,  and caring for nothing so much as becoming a queen 
again ,  left her children and was wedded to him .  

Successful and triumphant ,  assisted by the valour of the 
English in his foreign wars ,  and with little strife to trouble 
him at home ,  Canute had a prosperous reign ,  and made many 
improvements .  He was a poet and a musician .  He grew 
sorry ,  as he grew older ,  for the blood he had shed at first  ;  
and went to Rome in a Pilgrims dress ,  by way of washing 
it out .  He gave a great deal of money to foreigners on his 
journey  ;  but he took it from the English before he started .  



48 A CHILDS HISTORY OF ENGLAND 

On the whole ,  however ,  he certainly became a far better man 
when he had no opposition to contend with ,  and was as great 
a King as England had known for some time .  

The old writers of histoiy relate how that Canute was one 
day disgusted with his courtiers for their flattery ,  and how 
he caused his chair to be set on the sea - shore ,  and feigned 
to command the tide as it came up not to wet the edge of 
his robe ,  for the land was his  ;  how the tide came up ,  of 
course ,  without regarding him  ;  and how he then turned to 
his flatterers ,  and rebuked them ,  saying ,  what was the might 
of any earthly king ,  to the might of the Creator ,  who could 
say unto the sea ,   "  Thus far shalt thou go ,  and no farther  !   "  
We may learn from this ,  I think ,  that a little sense will go 
a long way in a king  ;  and that courtiers are not easily cured 
of flattery ,  nor kings of a liking for it .  If the courtiers of 
Canute had not known ,  long before ,  that the King was fond 
of flattery ,  they would have known better than to offer it in 
such large doses .  And if they had not known that he was 
vain of this speech  ( anything but a wonderful speech it 
seems to me ,  if a good child had made it )  ,  they would not 
have been at such great pains to repeat it .  I fancy I see 
them all on the sea - shore together  ;  the Kings chair sinking 
in the sand  ;  the King in a mighty good humour with his 
own wisdom  ;  and the courtiers pretending to be quite 
stunned by it  !  

It is not the sea alone that is bidden to go  "  thus far ,  and 
no farther .  "  The great command goes forth to all the kings 
upon the earth ,  and went to Canute in the year one thousand 
and thirty - five ,  and stretched him dead upon his bed .  Beside 
it ,  stood his Norman wife .  Perhaps ,  as the King looked his 
last upon her ,  he ,  who had so often thought distrustfully of 
Normandy ,  long ago ,  thought once more of the two exiled 
Princes in their uncles court ,  and of the little favour they 
L - ould feel for either Danes or Saxons ,  and of a rising cloud 
iii Normandy that slowly moved towards England .  



CHAPTER VI 

ENGLAND UNDER HAROLD HAREFOOT ,  HARDICANUTE ,  AND 
EDWARD THE CONFESSOR 

Canute left three sons ,  by name Sweyn ,  Harold ,  and Hardi -  
canute  ;  but his Queen ,  Emma ,  once the Flower of Normandy ,  
was the mother of only Hardicanute .  Canute had wished 
his dominions to be divided between the three ,  and had 
wished Harold to have England  ;  but the Saxon people in 
the South of England ,  headed by a nobleman with great 
possessions ,  called the powerful Earl Godwin  ( who is said 
to have been originally a poor cow - boy )  ,  opposed this ,  and 
desired to have ,  instead ,  either Hardicanute ,  or one of the 
two exiled Princes who were over in Normandy .  It seemed 
so certain that there would be more bloodshed to settle this 
dispute ,  that many people left their homes ,  and took refuge 
in the woods and swamps .  Happily ,  however ,  it was agreed 
to refer the whole question to a great meeting at Oxford ,  
which decided that Harold should have all the country north 
of the Thames ,  with London for his capital city ,  and that 
Hardicanute should have all the south .  The quarrel was 
so arranged  ;  and ,  as Hardicanute was in Denmark troubling 
himself very little about anything but eating and getting 
drunk ,  his mother and Earl Godwin governed the south 
for him .  

They had hardly begun to do so ,  and the trembling people 
who had hidden themselves were scarcely at home again ,  
when Edward ,  the elder of the two exiled Princes ,  came 
over from Normandy with a few followers ,  to claim the 
English Crown .  His mother Emma ,  however ,  who only 
cared for her last son Hardicanute ,  instead of assisting him ,  
as he expected ,  opposed him so strongly with all her influence 
that he was very soon glad to get safely back .  His brother 
Alfred was not so fortunate .  Believing in an affectionate 
letter ,  written some time afterwards to him and his brother ,  



50 A CHILD S HISTORY OF ENGLAND 

in his mothers name  ( but whether really with or without 
his mothers knowledge is now uncertain )  ,  he allowed himself 
to be tempted over to England ,  with a good force of soldiers ,  
and landing on the Kentish coast ,  and being met and 
welcomed by Earl Godwin ,  proceeded into Surrey ,  as far 
as the town of Guildford .  Here ,  he and his men halted 
in the evening to rest ,  having still the Earl in their company  ;  
who had ordered lodgings and good cheer for them .  But ,  
in the dead of the night ,  when they were off their guard ,  
being divided into small parties sleeping soundly after 
a long march and a plentiful supper in different houses ,  
they were set upon by the Kings troops ,  and taken prisoners .  
Next morning they weie drawn out in a line ,  to the number 
of six hundred men ,  and were barbarously tortured and 
killed  ;  with the exception of every tenth man ,  who was 
sold into slavery .  As to the wretched Prince Alfred ,  he 
was stripped naked ,  tied to a horse and sent away into the 
Isle of Ely ,  where his eyes were torn out of his head ,  and 
where in a few days he miserably died .  I am not sure 
that the Earl had wilfully entrapped him ,  but I suspect it 
strongly .  

Harold was now King all over England ,  though it is 
doubtful whether the Archbishop of Canterbury  ( the greater 
part of the priests were Saxons ,  and not friendly to the 
Danes )  ever consented to crown him .  Crowned or un -  
crowned ,  with the Archbishops leave or without it ,  he 
was King for four years : after which short reign he died ,  
and was buried  ;  having never done much in life but go 
a hunting .  He was such a fast runner at this ,  his favourite 
sport ,  that the people called him Harold Harefoot .  

Hardicanute was then at Bruges ,  in Flanders ,  plotting ,  
with his mother  ( who had gone over there after the cruel 
murder of Prince Alfred )  ,  for the invasion of England .  The 
Danes and Saxons ,  finding themselves without a King ,  and 
dreading new disputes ,  made common cause ,  and joined in 
inviting him to occupy the Throne .  He consented ,  and soon 
troubled them enough  ;  for he brought over numbers of 
Danes ,  and taxed the people so insupportably to enrich 
those greedy favourites that there were many insurrections ,  
especially one at Worcester ,  where the citizens rose and 
killed his tax - collectors  ;  in revenge for which he burned 
their city .  He was a brutal King ,  whose first public act 
was to order the dead body of poor Harold Harefoot to be 



EDWARD THE CONFESSOR 5T 

dug up ,  beheaded ,  and thrown into the river .  His end was 
worthy of such a beginning .  He fell down drunk ,  with 
a goblet of wine in his hand ,  at a wedding - feast at Lambeth ,  
given in honour of the marriage of his standard - bearer ,  
a Dane named Towed the Proud .  And he never spoke 
again .  

Edward ,  afterwards called by the monks The Confessor .  
succeeded  ;  and his first act was to oblige his mother Emma ,  
who had favoured him so little ,  to retire into the country  ;  
where she died some ten years afterwards .  He was the 
exiled prince whose brother Alfred had been so foully killed .  
He had been invited over from Normandy by Hardicanute ,  
in the course of his short reign of two years ,  and had been 
handsomely treated at court .  His cause was now favoured 
by the powerful Earl Godwin ,  and he was soon made King .  
This Earl had been suspected by the people ,  ever since 
Prince Alfreds cruel death  ;  he had even been tried in the 
last reign for the Princes murder ,  but had been pronounced 
not guilty  ;  chiefly ,  as it was supposed ,  because of a present 
he had made to the swinish King ,  of a gilded ship with 
a figure - head of solid gold ,  and a crew of eighty splendidly 
armed men .  It was his interest to help the new King with 
his power ,  if the new King would help him against the 
popular distrust and hatred .  So they made a bargain .  
Edward the Confessor got the Throne .  The Earl got more 
power and more land ,  and his daughter Editha was made 
queen  ;  for it was a part of their compact that the King 
should take her for his wife .  

But ,  although she was a gentle lady ,  in all things worthy 
to be beloved— good ,  beautiful ,  sensible ,  and kind — the King 
from the first neglected her .  Her father and her six proud 
brothers ,  resenting this cold treatment ,  harassed the King 
greatly by exerting all their power to make him unpopular .  
Having lived so long in Normandy ,  he preferred the 
Normans to the English .  He made a Norman Archbishop ,  
and Norman Bishops  ;  his great officers and favourites were 
all Normans  ;  he introduced the Norman fashions and the 
Norman language  ;  in imitation of the state custom of 
Normandy ,  he attached a great seal to his state documents ,  
instead of merely marking them ,  as the Saxon Kings had 
done ,  with the sign of the cross — just as poor people who 
have never been taught to write ,  now make the same mark 
for their names .  All this ,  the powerful Earl Godwin and 



52 A CHILD S HISTOKY OF ENGLAND 

his six proud sons represented to the people as disfavour 
shown towards the English  ;  and thus they daily increased 
their own power ,  and daily diminished the power of the 

King .  

They were greatly helped by an event that occurred when 
he had reigned eight years .  Eustace ,  Earl of Bologne ,  who 
had married the Kings sister ,  came to England on a visit .  
After staying at the court some time ,  he set forth ,  with his 
numerous train of attendants ,  to return home .  They were 
to embark at Dover .  Entering that peaceful town in armour ,  
they took possession of the best houses ,  and noisily demanded 
to be lodged and entertained without payment .  One of the 
bold men of Dover ,  who would not endure to have these 
domineering strangers jingling their heavy swords and iron 
corselets up and down his house ,  eating his meat and drinking 
his strong liquor ,  stood in his doorway and refused admission 
to the first armed man who came there .  The armed man 
drew ,  and wounded him .  The man of Dover struck the 
armed man dead .  Intelligence of what he had done ,  
spreading through the streets to where the Count Eustace 
and his men were standing by their horses ,  bridle in hand ,  
they passionately mounted ,  galloped to the house ,  surrounded 
it ,  forced their way in  ( the doors and windows being closed 
when they came up )  ,  and killed the man of Dover at his own 
fireside .  They then clattered through the streets ,  cutting -  
down and riding over men ,  women ,  and children .  This did 
not last long ,  you may believe .  The men of Dover set upon 
them with great fury ,  killed nineteen of the foreigners ,  
wounded many more ,  and ,  blockading the road to the port 
so that they should not embark ,  beat them out of the town 
by the way they had come .  Hereupon ,  Count Eustace rides 
as hard as man can ride to Gloucester ,  where Edward is -  ,  
surrounded by Norman monks and Norman lords .   " Justice  !  "  
cries the Count ,   "  upon the men of Dover ,  who have set upon 
and slain my people  !   "  The King sends immediately for the 
powerful Earl Godwin ,  who happens to be near  ;  reminds 
him that Dover is under his government  ;  and orders him to 
repair to Dover and do military execution on the inhabitants .  
 " It does not become you ,  "  says the proud Earl in reply ,  
 "  to condemn without a hearing those whom you have sworn 
to protect .  I will not do it .  "  

The King ,  therefore ,  summoned the Earl ,  on pain of 
banishment and loss of his titles and property ,  to appear 



EDWARD THE CONFESSOR 53 

befoi - e the court to answer this disobedience .  The Earl 
refused to appear .  He ,  his eldest son Harold ,  and his second 
son Sweyn ,  hastily raised as many fighting men as their 
utmost power could collect ,  and demanded to have Count 
Eustace and his followers surrendered to the justice of the 
country .  The King ,  in his turn ,  refused to give them up ,  
and raised a strong force .  After some treaty and delay ,  the 
troops of the great Earl and his sons began to fall off .  The 
Earl ,  with a part of his family and abundance of treasure ,  
sailed to Flanders  ;  Harold escaped to Ireland  ;  and the 
power of the great family was for that time gone in England .  
But ,  the people did not forget them .  

Then ,  Edward the Confessor ,  with the true meanness of 
a mean spirit ,  visited his dislike of the once powerful father 
and sons upon the helpless daughter and sister ,  his unoffend -  
ing wife ,  whom all who saw her  ( her husband and his monks 
excepted )  loved .  He seized rapaciously upon her fortune 
and her jewels ,  and allowing her only one attendant ,  con -  
fined her in a gloomy convent ,  of which a sister of his — no 
doubt an unpleasant lady after his own heart — was abbess 
or jailer .  

Having got Earl Godwin and his six sons well out of his 
way ,  the King favoured the Normans more than ever .  He 
invited over William ,  Duke of Normandy ,  the son of that 
Duke who had received him and his murdered brother long 
ago ,  and of a peasant girl ,  a tanners daughter ,  with whom 
that Duke had fallen in love for her beauty as he saw her 
washing clothes in a brook .  William ,  who was a great 
warrior ,  with a passion for fine horses ,  dogs ,  and arms ,  
accepted the invitation  ;  and the Normans in England ,  
finding themselves more numerous than ever when he 
arrived with his retinue ,  and held in still greater honour 
at court than before ,  became more and more haughty 
towards the people ,  and were more and more disliked by 
them .  

The old Earl Godwin ,  though he was abroad ,  knew well 
how the people felt  ;  for ,  with part of the treasure he had 
carried away with him ,  he kept spies and agents in his pay 
all over England .  Accordingly ,  he thought the time was 
come for fitting out a great expedition against the Norman -  
loving King .  With it ,  he sailed to the Isle of Wight ,  where 
he was joined by his son Harold ,  the most gallant and brave 
of all his family .  And so the father and son came sailing 



54 A CHILDS HISTORY OF ENGLAND 

up the Thames to South wark  ;  great numbers of the people 
declaring for them ,  and shouting for the English Earl and 
the English Harold ,  against the Norman favourites  !  

The King was at first as blind and stubborn as kings 
usually have been whensoever they have been in the hands 
of monks .  But the people rallied so thickly round the old 
Earl and his son ,  and the old Earl was so steady in demand -  
ing without bloodshed the restoration of himself and his 
family to their rights ,  that at last the court took the alarm .  
The Norman Archbishop of Canterbury ,  and the Norman 
Bishop of London ,  surrounded by their retainers ,  fought 
their way out of London ,  and escaped from Essex to France 
in a fishing - boat .  The other Norman favourites dispersed 
in all directions .  The old Earl and his sons  ( except Sweyn ,  
who had committed crimes against the law )  were restored 
to their possessions and dignities .  Editha .  the virtuous and 
lovely Queen of the insensible King ,  was triumphantly 
released from her prison ,  the convent ,  and once more sat in 
her chair of state ,  arrayed in the jewels of which ,  when she 
had no champion to support her rights ,  her cold - blooded 
husband had deprived her .  

The old Earl Godwin did not long enjoy his restored 
fortune .  He fell down in a fit at the Kings table ,  and died 
upon the third day afterwards .  Harold succeeded to his 
power ,  and to a far higher place in the attachment of the 
people than his father had ever held .  By his valour he 
subdued the Kings enemies in many bloody fights .  He 
was vigorous against rebels in Scotland — this was the time 
when Slacbeth slew Duncan ,  upon which event our English 
Shakespeare ,  hundreds of years afterwards ,  wrote his great 
tragedy  ;  and he killed the restless Welsh King Griffith ,  
and brought his head to England .  

What Harold was doing at sea .  when he was driven on 
the French coast by a tempest ,  is not at all certain  ;  nor 
does it at all matter .  That his ship was forced by a storm 
on that shore ,  and that he was taken prisoner ,  there is no 
doubt .  In those barbarous days ,  all shipwrecked strangers 
were taken prisoners ,  and obliged to pay ransom .  So ,  
a certain Count Guy ,  who was the Lord of Ponthieu where 
Harolds disaster happened ,  seized him ,  instead of relieving 
him like a hospitable and Christian lord as he ought to have 
done ,  and expected to make a very good thing of it .  

But Harold sent off immediately to Duke William of 



EDWARD THE CONFESSOB 55 

Normandy ,  complaining of this treatment  ;  and the Duke 
no sooner heard of it than he ordered Harold to be escorted 
to the ancient town of Rouen ,  where he then was ,  and where 
he received him as an honoured guest .  Now .  some writers 
tell us that Edward the Confessor ,  who was by this time old 
and had no children ,  had made a will ,  appointing Duke 
William of Normandy his successor ,  and had informed the 
Duke of his having done so .  There is no doubt that he was 
anxious about his successor  ;  because he had even invited 
over ,  from abroad ,  Edward the Outlaw ,  a son of Ironside ,  
who had come to England with his wife and three children ,  
but whom the King had strangely refused to see when he 
did come ,  and who had died in London suddenly  ( princes 
were terribly liable to sudden death in those days )  ,  and had 
been buried in St .  Pauls Cathedral .  The King might 
possibly have made such a will  ;  or ,  having always been 
fond of the Normans ,  he might have encouraged Norman 
William to aspire to the English crown ,  by something that 
he said to him when he was staying at the English court .  
But .  certainly William did now aspire to it  ;  and knowing 
that Harold would be a powerful rival ,  he called together 
a great assembly of his nobles ,  offered Harold his daughter 
Adele in marriage ,  informed him that he meant on King 
Edwards death to claim the English crown as his own 
inheritance ,  and required Harold then and there to swear to 
aid him .  Harold ,  being in the Dukes power ,  took this oath 
upon the Missal ,  or Prayer - book .  It is a good example of 
the superstitions of the monks ,  that this Missal ,  instead of 
being placed upon a table ,  was placed upon a tub  ;  which ,  
when Harold had sworn ,  was uncovered ,  and shown to be 
full of dead mens bones — bones ,  as the monks pretended ,  of 
saints .  This was supposed to make Harolds oath a great 
deal more impressive and binding .  As if the great name of 
the Creator of Heaven and earth could be made more solemn 
by a knuckle - bone ,  or a double - tooth ,  or a finger - nail ,  of 
Dunstan  !  

Within a week or two after Harolds return to England ,  
the dreary old Confessor was found to be dying .  After 
wandering in his mind like a very weak old man ,  he died .  
As he had put himself entirely in the hands of the monks 
when he was alive ,  they praised him lustily when he was 
dead .  They had gone so far ,  already ,  as to persuade him 
that he could work miracles  ;  and had brought people 



56 A CHILDS HISTORY OF ENGLAND 

afflicted with n bad disorder of the skin ,  to him ,  to be 
touched and cured .  This was called  "  touching for the 
Kings Evil ,  "  which afterwards became a royal custom .  You 
know ,  however ,  Who really touched the sick ,  and healed 
them  ;  and you know His sacred name is not among the 
dusty line of human kings .  



CHAPTER VII 

ENGLAND UNDER HAROLD THE SECOND ,  AND CONQUERED 

BY THE NORMANS 

Hakold was crowned King of England on the very day of 
the maudlin Confessors funeral .  He had good need to be 
quick about it .  When the news reached Norman William ,  
hunting in his park at Rouen ,  he dropped his bow ,  returned 
to his palace ,  called his nobles to council ,  and presently sent 
ambassadors to Harold ,  calling on him to keep his oath and 
resign the Crown .  Harold would do no such thing .  The 
barons of France leagued together round Duke William for 
the invasion of England .  Duke William promised freely to 
distribute English wealth and English lands among them .  
The Pope sent to Normandy a consecrated banner ,  and a ring 
containing a hair which he warranted to have grown on the 
head of Saint Peter .  He blessed the enterprise  ;  and cursed 
Harold  ;  and requested that the Normans would pay  "  Peters 
Pence  "  — or a tax to himself of a penny a year on every 
house — a little more regularly in future ,  if they could make 
it convenient .  

King Harold had a rebel brother in Flanders ,  who was a 
vassal of Harold Hardrada .  King of Norway .  This brother ,  
and this Norwegian King ,  joining their forces against 
England ,  with Duke Williams help ,  won a light in which 
the English were commanded by two nobles  ;  and then 
besieged York .  Harold ,  who was waiting for the Normans 
on the coast at Hastings ,  with his army ,  marched to Stamford 
Bridge upon the river Derwent to give them instant battle .  

He found them drawn up in a hollow circle ,  marked out 
by their shining spears .  Riding round this circle at a 
distance ,  to survey it ,  he saw a brave figure on horseback ,  
in a blue mantle and a bright helmet ,  whose horse suddenly 
stumbled and threw him .  

• Who is that man who has fallen V  "  Harold asked of one 
of his captains .  



58 



A CHILDS HISTORY OF ENGLAND 



 "  The King of Norway ,  "  he replied .  

 "  He is a tall and stately king ,  "  said Harold ,   "  but his end 



is near .  "  



He added ,  in a little while ,   "  Go yonder to my brother ,  
and tell him ,  if he withdraw his troops ,  he shall be Earl of 
Northumberland ,  and rich and powerful in England .  "  

The captain rode away and gave the message .  

 "  What will he give to my friend the King of Norway ?  "  
asked the brother .  

 " Seven feet of earth for a grave ,  "  replied the captain .  

 " No more? "  returned the brother ,  with a smile .  

 " The King of Norway being a tall man ,  perhaps a little 
more ,  "  replied the captain .  

 "  Ride back  !   "  said the brother ,   "  and tell King Harold to 
make ready for the fight  !   "  

He did so ,  very soon .  And such a fight King Harold led 
against that force ,  that his brother ,  and the Norwegian King ,  
and every chief of note in all their host ,  except the Norwegian 
Kings son ,  Olave ,  to whom he gave honourable dismissal ,  
were left dead upon the field .  The victorious army marched 
to York .  As King Harold sat there at the feast ,  in the 
midst of all his company ,  a stir was heard at the doors  ;  and 
messengers all covered with mire from riding far and fast 
through broken ground came hurrying in ,  to report that the 
Normans had landed in England .  

The intelligence was true .  They had been tossed about 
by contrary winds ,  and some of their ships had been wrecked .  
A part of their own shore ,  to which they had been driven 
back ,  was strewn with Norman bodies .  But they had once 
more made sail ,  led by the Dukes own galley ,  a present from 
his wife ,  upon the prow whereof the figure of a golden boy 
stood pointing towards England .  By day ,  the banner of the 
three Lions of Normandy ,  the diverse coloured sails ,  the 
gilded vans ,  the many decorations of this gorgeous ship ,  had 
glittered in the sun and sunny water  ;  by night ,  a light had 
sparkled like a star at her mast - head .  And now ,  encamped 
near Hastings ,  with their leader lying in the old Roman 
castle of Pevensey ,  the English retiring in all directions ,  
the land for miles around scorched and smoking ,  fired and 
pillaged ,  was the whole Norman power ,  hopeful and strong 
on English ground .  

Harold broke up the feast and hurried to London .  Within 
a week ,  his army was ready .  He sent out spies to ascertain 



HAROLD THE SECOND 59 

the Norman strength .  William took them ,  caused them to 
be led through his whole camp ,  and then dismissed .  • The 
Normans ,  "  said these spies to Harold ,   " are not bearded on 
the upper lip as we English are ,  but are shorn .  They are 
priests .  "   " My men ,  "  replied Harold ,  with a laugh ,   " will 
find those priests good soldiers  !   "  

 " The Saxons ,  "  reported Duke Williams outposts of 
Norman soldiers ,  who were instructed to retire as King 
Harolds army advanced ,   "  rush on us through their pillaged 
country with the fury of madmen .  "  

 "  Let them come ,  and come soon  !   "  said Duke William .  

Some proposals for a reconciliation were made ,  but were 
soon abandoned .  In the middle of the month of October ,  
in the year one thousand and sixty - six ,  the Normans and the 
English came front to front .  All night the armies lay 
encamped before each other ,  in a part of the country then 
called Senlac ,  now called  ( in remembrance of them )  Battle .  
With the first dawn of day ,  they arose .  There ,  in the faint 
light ,  were the English on a hill  ;  a wood behind them  ;  in 
their midst ,  the Eoyal banner ,  representing a fighting warrior ,  
woven in gold thread ,  adorned with precious stones  ;  beneath 
the banner ,  as it rustled in the wind ,  stood King Harold on 
foot ,  with two of his remaining brothers by his side  ;  around 
them ,  still and silent as the dead ,  clustered the whole English 
army — every soldier covered by his shield ,  and bearing in 
his hand his dreaded English battle - axe .  

On an opposite hill ,  in three lines ,  archers ,  foot - soldiers ,  
horsemen ,  was the Norman force .  Of a sudden ,  a great 
battle - cry ,   " God help us !  "  burst from the Norman lines .  
The English answered with their own battle - cry ,   " Gods 
Rood  !  Holy Rood  !   "  The Normans then came sweeping 
down the hill to attack the English .  

There was one tall Norman Knight who rode before the 
Norman army on a prancing horse ,  throwing up his heavy 
sword and catching it ,  and singing of the bravery of his 
countrymen .  An English Knight ,  who rode out from the 
English force to meet him ,  fell by this Knights hand .  
Another English Knight rode out ,  and he fell too .  But 
then a third rode out ,  and killed the Norman .  This was in 
the first beginning of the fight .  It soon raged everywhere .  

The English ,  keeping side by side in a great mass ,  cared 
no more for the showers of Norman arrows than if they had 
been showers of Norman rain .  When the Norman horse -  



6o A CHILD S HISTORY OF ENGLAND 

men rode against them ,  with their battle - axes they cut men 
and horses down .  The Normans gave way .  The English 
pressed forward .  A cry went forth among the Norman 
troops that Duke William was killed .  Duke William took 
off his helmet ,  in order that his face might be distinctly seen ,  
and rode along the line before his men .  This gave them 
courage .  As they turned again to face the English ,  some 
of their Norman horse divided the pursuing body of the 
English from the rest ,  and thus all that foremost portion 
of the English army fell ,  fighting bravely .  The mam 
body still remaining firm ,  heedless of the Norman arrows ,  
and with their battle - axes cutting down the crowds of 
horsemen when they rode up .  like forests of young trees ,  
Duke William pretended to retreat .  The eager English 
followed .  The Norman army closed again ,  and fell upon 
them with great slaughter .  

 "  Still ,  "  said Duke William ,   "  there are thousands of the 
English ,  firm as rocks around their King .  Shoot upward 
Norman archers ,  that your arrows may fall down upon then -  
faces  !   "   .  .  
The sun rose high ,  and sank ,  and the battle still raged .  
Through all the wild October day ,  the clash and din re -  
sounded in the air .  In the red sunset ,  and in the white 
moonlight ,  heaps upon heaps of dead men lay strewn ,  a 
dreadful spectacle ,  all over the ground .  King Harold ,  
wounded with an arrow in the eye ,  was nearly blind .  His 
brothers were already killed .  Twenty Norman Knights ,  whose 
battered armour had Hashed fiery and golden in the sunshine 
all day long ,  and now looked silvery in the moonlight ,  dashed 
forward to seize the Koyal banner from the English Knights 
and soldiers ,  still faithfully collected round their blinded 
King .  The King received a mortal wound ,  and dropped .  
The^English broke and fled .  The Normans rallied ,  and the 

day was lost .  til 

what a sight beneath the moon and stars ,  when lights 
were shining in the tent of the victorious Duke William ,  
which was pitched near the spot where Harold fell— and he 
and his knights were carousing ,  within— and soldiers with 
torches ,  going slowly to and fro ,  without ,  sought tor the 
corpse of Harold among piles of dead— and the Warrior ,  
worked in golden thread and precious stones ,  lay low .  all 
torn and soiled with blood— and the three Norman Lions 
kept watch over the field  !  



CHAPTER VIII 

ENGLAND UNDER WILLIAM THE FIRST ,  THE NORMAN 

CONQUEROR 

Upon the ground where the brave Harold fell ,  William the 
Norman afterwards founded an abbey ,  which ,  under the 
name of Battle Abbey ,  was a rich and splendid place through 
many a troubled year ,  though now it is a grey ruin over -  
grown with ivy .  But the first work he had to do ,  was to 
conquer the English thoroughly  ;  and that ,  as you know by 
this time ,  was hard work for any man .  

He ravaged several counties  ;  he burned and plundered 
many towns  ;  he laid waste scores upon scores of miles of 
pleasant country  ;  he destroyed innumerable lives .  At length 
Stigand ,  Archbishop of Canterbury ,  with other representa -  
tives of the clergy and the people ,  went to his camp and 
submitted to him .  Edgak ,  the insignificant son of Edmund 
Ironside ,  was proclaimed King by others ,  but nothing came 
of it .  He fled to Scotland afterwards ,  where his sister ,  who 
was young and beautiful ,  married the Scottish King .  Edgar 
himself was not important enough for anybody to care much 
about him .  

On Christmas Day ,  William was crowned in Westminster 
Abbey ,  under the title of William the First  ;  but he is 
best known as William the Conqueror .  It was a strange 
coronation .  One of the bishops who performed the ceremony 
asked the Normans in French ,  if they would have Duke 
William for their king ? They answered Yes .  Another of 
the bishops put the same question to the Saxons ,  in English .  
They too answered Yes ,  with a loud shout .  The noise being 
heard by a guard of Norman horse - soldiers outside ,  was mis -  
taken for resistance on the part of the English .  The guard 
instantly set fire to the neighbouring houses ,  and a tumult 
ensued  ;  in the midst of which the King ,  being left alone in 
the Abbey ,  with a few priests  ( and they all being in a ter -  
rible fright together )  ,  was hurriedly crowned .  When the 



62 A CHILDS HISTORY OF ENGLAND 

crown was placed upon his head ,  he swore to govern the 
English as well as the best of their own monarchs .  I dare 
say you think ,  as I do ,  that if we except the Great Alfred ,  
he might pretty easily have done that .  

Numbers of the English nobles had been killed in the last 
disastrous battle .  Their estates ,  and the estates of all the 
nobles who had fought against him there ,  King William 
seized upon ,  and gave to his own Norman knights and nobles .  
Many great English families of the present time acquired 
their English lands in this way ,  and are very proud of it .  

But what is got by force must be maintained by force .  
These nobles were obliged to build castles all over England ,  
to defend their new property  ;  and ,  do what he would ,  the 
King could neither soothe nor quell the nation as he wished .  
He gradually introduced the Norman language and the Nor -  
man customs  ;  yet ,  for a long time the great body of the 
English remained sullen and revengeful .  On his going over 
to Normandy ,  to visit his subjects there ,  the oppressions of 
his half - brother Odo ,  whom he left in charge of his Eng -  
lish kingdom ,  drove the people mad .  The men of Kent 
even invited over ,  to take possession of Dover ,  their old 
enemy Count Eustace of Boulogne ,  who had led the fray 
when the Dover man was slain at his own fireside .  The 
men of Hereford ,  aided by the Welsh ,  and commanded by 
a chief namea Edric the Wild ,  drove the Normans out of 
their country .  Some of those who had been dispossessed 
of their lands ,  banded together in the North of England  ;  
some ,  in Scotland  ;  some ,  in the thick woods and marshes  ;  
and whensoever they could fall upon the Normans ,  or upon 
the English who had submitted to the Normans ,  they fought ,  
despoiled ,  and murdered ,  like the desperate outlaws that 
they were .  Conspiracies were set on foot for a general mas -  
sacre of the Normans ,  like the old massacre of the Danes .  
In short ,  the English were in a murderous mood all through 
the kingdom .  

King William ,  fearing he might lose his conquest ,  came 
back ,  and tried to pacify the London people by soft words .  
He then set forth to repress the country people by stein 
deeds .  Among the towns which he besieged ,  and where he 
killed and maimed the inhabitants without any distinction ,  
sparing none ,  young or old ,  armed or unarmed ,  were Oxford ,  
Warwick .  Leicester .  Nottingham ,  Derby ,  Lincoln .  York .  In 
all these places ,  and in many others ,  fire and sword worked 



WILLIAM THE CONQUEROR 63 

their utmost horrors ,  and made the land dreadful to behold .  
The streams and rivers were discoloured with blood  ;  the 
sky was blackened with smoke  ;  the fields were wastes of 
ashes  ;  the waysides were heaped up with dead .  Such are the 
fatal results of conquest and ambition  !  Although William 
was a harsh and angry man ,  I do not suppose that he de -  
liberately meant to work this shocking ruin ,  when he invaded 
England .  But what he had got by the strong hand ,  he 
could only keep by the strong hand ,  and in so doing he 
made England a great grave .  

Two sons of Harold ,  by name Edmund and Godwin ,  came 
over from Ireland ,  with some ships ,  against the Normans ,  
but were defeated .  This was scarcely done ,  when the out -  
laws in the woods so harrassed York ,  that the Governor sent 
to the King for help .  The King despatched a general and a 
large force to occupy the town of Durham .  The Bishop of 
that place met the general outside the town ,  and warned 
him not to enter ,  as he would be in danger there .  The 
general eared nothing for the warning ,  and went in with all 
his men .  That night ,  on every hill within sight of Durham ,  
signal fires were seen to blaze .  When the morning dawned ,  
the English ,  who had assembled in great strength ,  forced 
the gates ,  rushed into the town ,  and slew the Normans 
every one .  The English afterwards besought the Danes to 
come and help them .  The Danes came ,  with two hundred 
and forty ships .  The outlawed nobles joined them  ;  they 
captured York ,  and drove the Normans out of that city .  
Then ,  William bribed the Danes to go away  ;  and took such 
vengeance on the English ,  that all the former fire and 
sword ,  smoke and ashes ,  death and ruin ,  were nothing com -  
pared with it .  In melancholy songs ,  and doleful stories ,  it 
was still sung and told by cottage fires on winter evenings ,  
a hundred years afterwards ,  how ,  in those dreadful days of 
the Normans ,  there was not ,  from the River Humber to the 
River Tyne ,  one inhabited village left ,  nor one cultivated 
field — how there was nothing but a dismal ruin ,  where the 
human creatures and the beasts lay dead together .  

The outlaws had ,  at this time ,  what they called a Camp of 
Refuge ,  in the midst of the fens of Cambridgeshire .  Pro -  
tected by those marshy grounds which were difficult of 
approach ,  they lay among the reeds and rushes ,  and were 
hidden by the mists that rose up from the watery earth .  
Now ,  there also was ,  at that time ,  over the sea in Flanders ,  



64 A CHILDS HISTORY OF ENGLAND 

an Englishman named Here - ward ,  whose father had died 
in his absence ,  and whose property had been given to 
a Norman .  When he heard of this wrong that had been 
done him  ( from such of the exiled English as chanced to 
wander into that country )  ,  he longed for revenge ;  and 
joining the outlaws in their camp of refuge ,  became their 
commander .  He was so good a soldier ,  that the Normans 
supposed him to be aided by enchantment .  William ,  even 
after he had made a road three miles in length across the 
Cambridgeshire marshes ,  on purpose to attack this supposed 
enchanter ,  thought it necessary to engage an old lady ,  who 
pretended to be a sorceress ,  to come and do a little enchant -  
ment in the royal cause .  For this purpose she was pushed 
on before the troops in a wooden tower  ;  but Hereward 
very soon disposed of this unfortunate sorceress ,  by burning 
her .  tower and all .  The monks of the convent of Ely near 
at hand ,  however ,  who were fond of good living ,  and who 
found it very uncomfortable to have the country blockaded 
and their supplies of meat and drink cut off .  showed the 
King a secret way of surprising the camp .  So Hereward 
was soon defeated .  Whether he afterwards died quietly ,  or 
whether he was killed after killing sixteen of the men who 
attacked him  ( as some old rhymes relate that he did )  .  I 
cannot say .  His defeat put an end to the Camp of Eefuge  ;  
and ,  very soon afterwards ,  the King ,  victorious both in 
Scotland and in England ,  quelled the last rebellious English 
noble .  He then surrounded himself with Norman lords ,  
enriched by the property of English nobles ;  had a great 
survey made of all the land in England ,  which was entered 
as the property of its new owners ,  on a roll called Dooms -  
day Book ;  obliged the people to put out their fires and 
candles at a certain hour every night ,  on the ringing of a 
bell which was called The Curfew  ;  introduced the Norman 
dresses and manners  ;  made the Normans masters every -  
where ,  and the English ,  servants  ;  turned out the English 
bishops ,  and put Normans in their places  ;  and showed 
himself to be the Conqueror indeed .  

But ,  even with his own Normans ,  he had a restless life .  
They were always hungering and thirsting for the riches of 
the English  ;  and the more he gave ,  the more they wanted .  
His priests were as greedy as his soldiers .  We know of only 
one Norman who plainly told his master ,  the King ,  that he 
had come with him to England to do his duty as a faithful 



WILLIAM THE CONQUEROR 65 

servant ,  and that property taken by force from other men 
had no charms for him .  His name was Guilbert .  We 
should not forget his name ,  for it is good to remember and to 
honour honest men .  

Besides all these troubles ,  William the Conqueror was 
troubled by quarrels among his sons .  He had three living .  
Robert ,  called Curthose ,  because of his short legs  ;  William ,  
called Rufus or the Red ,  from the colour of his hair  ;  and 
Henry ,  fond of learning ,  and called ,  in the Norman language ,  
Beauclerc ,  or Fine - Scholar .  When Robert grew up ,  he 
asked of his father the government of Normandy ,  which he 
had nominally possessed ,  as a child ,  under his mother ,  
Matilda .  The King refusing to grant it ,  Robert became 
jealous and discontented  ;  and happening one day ,  while in 
this temper ,  to be ridiculed by his brothers ,  who threw 
water on him from a balcony as he was walking before the 
door ,  he di*ew his sword ,  rushed up - stairs ,  and was only 
prevented by the King himself from putting them to death .  
That same night ,  he hotly departed with some followers 
from his fathers court ,  and endeavoured to take the Castle 
of Rouen by surprise .  Failing in this ,  he shut himself up 
in another Castle in Normandy ,  which the King besieged ,  
and where Robert one day unhorsed and nearly killed him 
without knowing who he was .  His submission when he 
discovered his father ,  and the intercession of the queen and 
others ,  reconciled them : but not soundly : for Robert soon 
strayed abroad ,  and went from court to court with his com -  
plaints .  He was a gay ,  careless ,  thoughtless fellow ,  spend -  
ing all he got on musicians and dancers  ;  but his mother 
loved him ,  and often ,  against the Kings command ,  supplied 
him witli money through a messenger named Samson .  At 
length the incensed King swore he would tear out Samsons 
eyes  ;  and Samson ,  thinking that his only hope of safety 
was in becoming a monk ,  became one .  went on such errands 
no more ,  and kept his eyes in his head .  

All this time ,  from the turbulent day of his strange 
coronation ,  the Conqueror had been struggling ,  you see ,  at 
any cost of cruelty and bloodshed ,  to maintain what he had 
seized .  All his reign ,  he struggled still ,  with the same 
object ever before him .  He was a stern bold man ,  and he 
succeeded in it .  

He loved money ,  and was particular in his eating ,  but he 
had only leisure to indulge one other passion ,  and that was 

1 .  Q 



66 A CHILDS HISTORY OF ENGLAND 

his love of hunting .  He carried it to such a height that he 
ordered whole villages and towns to be swept away to make 
forests for the deer .  Not satisfied with sixty - eight Royal 
Forests ,  he laid waste an immense district ,  to form another 
in Hampshire ,  called the New Forest .  The many thousands 
of miserable peasants who saw their little houses pulled 
down ,  and themselves and children turned into the open 
country without a shelter ,  detested him for his merciless 
addition to their many sufferings  ;  and when ,  in the twenty -  
first year of his reign  ( which proved to be the last )  ,  he went 
over to Rouen ,  England was as full of hatred against him ,  
as if every leaf on every tree in all his Royal Forests had 
been a curse upon his head .  In the New Forest ,  his son 
Richard  ( for he had four sons )  had been gored to death by 
a Stag  ;  and the people said that this so cruelly - made Forest 
would yet be fatal to others of the Conquerors race .  

He was engaged in a dispute with the King of France 
about some territory .  While he stayed at Rouen ,  negotiat -  
ing with that King ,  he kept his bed and took medicines : 
being advised by his physicians to do so ,  on account of hav -  
ing grown to an unwieldy size .  Word being brought to him 
that the King of France made light of this ,  and joked about 
it ,  he swore in a great rage that he should rue his jests .  He 
assembled his army ,  marched into the disputed territory ,  
burnt — his old way  !  — the vines ,  the crops ,  and fruit ,  and 
set the town of Mantes on fire .  But ,  in an evil hour : 
for ,  as he rode over the hot ruins ,  his horse ,  setting his 
hoofs upon some burning embers ,  started ,  threw him for -  
ward against the pommel of the saddle ,  and gave him 
a mortal hurt .  For six weeks he lay dying in a monas -  
tery near Rouen ,  and then made his will ,  giving England to 
William ,  Normandy to Robert ,  and five thousand pounds to 
Henry .  And now ,  his violent deeds lay heavy on his mind .  
He ordered money to be given to many English churches 
and monasteries ,  and — which was much better repentance —  .  
released his prisoners of state ,  some of whom had been con -  
fined in his dungeons twenty years .  

It was a September morning ,  and the sun was rising ,  when 
the King was awakened from slumber by the sound of a 
church bell .  ■ What bell is that ?  "  he faintly asked .  They 
told him it was the bell of the chapel of Saint Mary .   "  I 
commend my soul .  "  said he .   " to Mary  !   "  and died .  

Think of his name ,  The Conqueror ,  and then consider how 



WILLIAM THE CONQUEROR 67 

he lay in death  !  The moment he was dead ,  his physicians ,  
priest ,  and nobles ,  not knowing what contest for the throne 
might now take place ,  or what might happen in it ,  hastened 
away ,  each man for himself and his own property  ;  the 
mercenary servants of the court began to rob and plunder  ;  
the body of the King ,  in the indecent strife ,  was rolled from 
the bed ,  and lay alone ,  for hours ,  upon the ground .  O 
Conqueror ,  of whom so many great names are proud now ,  of 
whom so many great names thought nothing then ,  it were 
better to have conquered one true heart ,  than England  !  

By - and - by ,  the priests came creeping in with prayers and 
candles  ;  and a good knight ,  named Herluin ,  undertook 
 ( which no one else would do )  to convey the body to Caen ,  
in Normandy ,  in order that it might be buried in St .  
Stephens church there ,  which the Conqueror had founded .  
But fire ,  of which he had made such bad use in his life ,  
seemed to follow him of itself in death .  A great conflagra -  
tion broke out in the town when the body was placed in the 
church  ;  and those present running out to extinguish the 
flames ,  it was once again left alone .  

It was not even buried in peace .  It was about to be let 
down ,  in its Royal robes ,  into a tomb near the high altar ,  
in presence of a great concourse of people ,  when a loud voice 
in the crowd cried out ,   " This ground is mine !  Upon it ,  
stood my fathers house .  This King despoiled me of both 
ground and house to build this church .  In the great name 
of God ,  I here forbid his body to be covered with the earth 
that is my right  !   "  The priests and bishops present ,  know -  
ing the speakers right ,  and knowing that the King had often 
denied him justice ,  paid him down sixty shillings for the 
grave .  Even then ,  the corpse was not at rest .  The tomb 
was too small ,  and they tried to force it in .  It broke ,  a 
dreadful smell arose ,  the people hurried out into the air .  
and ,  for the third time ,  it was left alone .  

Where were the Conquerors three sons ,  that they were 
not at their fathers burial? Robert was lounging among 
minstrels ,  dancers ,  and gamesters ,  in France or Germany .  
Henry was carrying his five thousand pounds safely away in 
a convenient chest he had got made .  William the Red was 
hurrying to England ,  to lay hands upon the Royal treasure 
and the crown .  



CHAPTER IX 

ENGLAND UNDER WILLIAM THE SECOND ,  CALLED RUFUS 

William the Red ,  in breathless haste ,  secured the three 
great forts of Dover ,  Pevensey ,  and Hastings ,  and made with 
hot speed for Winchester ,  where the Royal treasure was kept .  
The treasurer delivering him the keys ,  he found that it 
amounted to sixty thousand pounds in silver ,  besides gold 
and jewels .  Possessed of this wealth ,  he soon persuaded the 
Archbishop of Canterbury to crown him .  and became William 
the Second ,  King of England .  

Rufus was no sooner on the throne ,  than he ordered into 
prison again the unhappy state captives whom his father had 
set free ,  and directed a goldsmith to ornament his fathers 
tomb profusely with gold and silver .  It would have been 
more dutiful in him to have attended the sick Conqueror 
when he was dying  ;  but England ,  itself ,  like this Red King ,  
who once governed it ,  has sometimes made expensive tombs 
for dead men whom it treated shabbily when they were 
alive .  

The Kings brother ,  Robert of Normandy ,  seeming quite 
content to be only Duke of that country  ;  and the Kings 
other brother ,  Fine - Scholar ,  being quiet enough with his 
five thousand pounds in a chest  ;  the King nattered himself ,  
we may suppose ,  with the hope of an easy reign .  But easy 
reigns were difficult to have in those days .  The turbulent 
Bishop Odo  ( who had blessed the Norman army at the 
Battle of Hastings ,  and who ,  I dare say .  took all the credit 
of the victory to himself )  soon began ,  in concert with some 
powerful Norman nobles ,  to trouble the Red King .  

The truth seems to be that this bishop and his friends ,  who 
had lands in England and lands in Normandy ,  wished to hold 
both under one Sovereign  ;  and greatly preferred a thought -  
less good - natured person ,  such as Robert was ,  to Rufus  ;  who ,  
though far from being an amiable man in any respect ,  was 
keen ,  and not to be imposed upon .  They declared in 



WILLIAM THE SECOND 69 

Eoberts favour ,  and retired to their castles  ( those castles 
were very troublesome to kings )  in a sullen humour .  The 
Eed King ,  seeing the Normans thus falling from him ,  
revenged himself upon them by appealing to the English  ;  
to whom he made a variety of promises ,  which he never 
meant to perform — in particular ,  promises to soften the 
cruelty of the Forest Laws  ;  and who ,  in return ,  so aided 
him with their valour ,  that Odo was besieged in the Castle 
of Eochester ,  and forced to abandon it ,  and to depart from 
England for ever: whereupon the other rebellious Norman 
nobles were soon reduced and scattered .  

Then ,  the Eed King went over to Normandy ,  where the 
people suffered greatly under the loose rule of Duke Eobert .  
The Kings object was to seize upon the Dukes dominions .  
This ,  the Duke ,  of course ,  prepared to resist  ;  and miserable 
war between the two brothers seemed inevitable ,  when the 
powerful nobles on both sides ,  who had seen so much of 
war ,  interfered to prevent it .  A treaty was made .  Each of 
the two brothers agreed to give up something of his claims ,  
and that the longer - liver of the two should inherit all the 
dominions of the other .  When they had come to this loving 
understanding ,  they embraced and joined their forces against 
Fine - Scholar  ;  who had bought some territory of Eobert 
with a part of his five thousand pounds ,  and was considered 
a dangerous individual in consequence .  

St .  Michaels Mount ,  in Normandy  ( there is another St .  
Michaels Mount ,  in Cornwall ,  wonderfully like it )  ,  was then ,  
as it is now ,  a strong place perched upon the top of a high 
rock ,  around which ,  when the tide is in ,  the sea flows ,  leaving 
no road to the mainland .  In this place ,  Fine - Scholar shut 
himself up with his soldiers ,  and here he was closely besieged 
by his two brothers .  At one time ,  when he was reduced to 
great distress for want of water ,  the generous Eobert not 
only permitted his men to get water ,  but sent Fine - Scholar 
wine from his own table  ;  and ,  on being remonstrated with 
by the Eed King ,  said  "  What  !  shall we let our own brother 
die of thirst? Where shall we get another ,  when he is 
gone ?  "  At another time ,  the Eed King riding alone on 
the shore of the bay ,  looking up at the Castle ,  was taken by 
two of Fine -  Scholars men ,  one of whom was about to kill 
him ,  when he cried out ,   "  Hold ,  knave  !  I am the King of 
England  !   "  The story says that the soldier raised him from 
thp ground respectfully and humbly ,  and that the King took 



7<D A CHILDS HISTORY OF ENGLAND 

him into his service .  The story may or may not be true  ;  
but at any rate it is true that Fine - Scholar could not hold 
out against his united brothers ,  and that he abandoned 
Mount St ,  Michael ,  and wandered about— as poor and for -  
lorn as other scholars have been sometimes known to be .  

The Scotch became unquiet in the Red Kings time ,  and 
were twice defeated— the second time ,  with the loss of then -  
King ,  Malcolm ,  and his son .  The Welsh became unquiet 
too .  Against them ,  Rufus was less successful  ;  for they 
fought among their native mountains ,  and did great execu -  
tion on the Kings troops .  Robert of Normandy became 
unquiet too  ;  and ,  complaining that his brother the King 
did not faithfully perform his part of their agreement ,  took 
up arms ,  and obtained assistance from the King of France ,  
whom Rufus ,  in the end ,  bought off with vast sums of 
money .  England became unquiet too .  Lord Mowbray ,  the 
powerful Earl of Northumberland ,  headed a great con -  
spiracy to depose the King ,  and to place upon the throne ,  
Stephen ,  the Conquerors near relative .  The plot was dis -  
covered  ;  all the chief conspirators were seized  ;  some were 
fined ,  some were put in prison ,  some were put to death .  
The Earl of Northumberland himself was shut up in a 
dungeon beneath Windsor Castle ,  where he died ,  an old 
man ,  thirty long years afterwards .  The Priests in England 
were more unquiet than any other class ,  or power  ;  for the 
Red King treated them with such small ceremony that he 
refused to appoint new bishops or archbishops when the old 
ones died ,  but kept all the wealth belonging to those offices 
in his own hands .  In return for this ,  the Priests wrote his 
life when he was dead ,  and abused him well .  I am inclined 
to think ,  myself ,  that there was little to choose between the 
Priests and the Red King  ;  that both sides were greedy and 
designing  ;  and that they were fairly matched .  

The Red King was false of heart ,  selfish ,  covetous ,  and 
mean .  He had a worthy minister in his favourite ,  Ralph ,  
nicknamed— for almost every famous person had a nickname 
in those rough days - Flambard ,  or the Firebrand .  Once ,  
the King being ill ,  became penitent ,  and made Anselm ,  a 
foreign priest and a good man .  Archbishop of Canterbury .  
But he no sooner got well again than he repented of his 
repentance ,  and persisted in wrongfully keeping to himself 
some of the wealth belonging to the archbishopric .  This 
led to violent disputes ,  which were aggravated by there being 



WILLIAM THE SECOND 7 1 

in Rome at that time two rival Popes  ;  each of whom de -  
clared he was the only real original infallible Pope ,  who 
couldnt make a mistake .  At last ,  Anselm ,  knowing the 
Red Kings character ,  and not feeling himself safe in Eng -  
land ,  asked leave to return abroad .  The Red King gladly 
gave it  ;  for he knew that as soon as Anselm was gone ,  he 
could begin to store up all the Canterbury money again ,  for 
his own use .  

By such means ,  and by taxing and oppressing the English 
people in every possible way ,  the Red King became very rich .  
When he wanted money for any purpose ,  he raised it by 
some means or other ,  and cared nothing for the injustice 
he did ,  or the misery he caused .  Having the opportunity 
of buying from Robert the whole duchy of Normandy for five 
years ,  he taxed the English people more than ever ,  and made 
the veiy convents sell their plate and valuables to supply 
him with the means to make the purchase .  But he was as 
quick and eager in putting down revolt as he was in raising 
money  ;  for ,  a part of the Norman people objecting — very 
naturally ,  I think — to being sold in this way ,  he headed an 
army against them with all the speed and energy of his 
father .  He was so impatient ,  that he embarked for Nor -  
mandy in a great gale of wind .  And when the sailors told 
him it was dangerous to go to sea in such angiy weather ,  he 
replied ,   "  Hoist sail and away  !  Did you ever hear of a 
king who was drowned ?  "  

You will wonder how it was that even the careless Robert 
came to sell his dominions .  It happened thus .  It had long 
been the custom for many English people to make journeys 
to Jerusalem ,  which were called pilgrimages ,  in order that 
they might pray beside the tomb of Our Saviour there .  
Jerusalem belonging to the Turks ,  and the Turks hating 
Christianity ,  these Christian travellers were often insulted 
and ill used .  The Pilgrims bore it patiently for some time ,  
but at length a remarkable man ,  of great earnestness and 
eloquence ,  called Peter the Hermit ,  began to preach in 
various places against the Turks ,  and to declare that it was 
the duty of good Christians to drive away those unbelievers 
from the tomb of Our Saviour ,  and to take possession of it ,  
and protect it .  An excitement such as the world had never 
known before was created .  Thousands and thousands of 
men of all i - anks and conditions departed for Jerusalem to 
make war against the Turks .  The war is called in history 



72 A CHILDS HISTOKY OF ENGLAND 

the first Crusade ,  and every Crusader wore a cross marked 
on his right shoulder .  

All the Crusaders were not zealous Christians .  _ Among 
them were vast numbers of the restless ,  idle ,  profligate ,  and 
adventurous spirits of the time .  Some became Crusaders for 
the love of change  ;  some ,  in the hope of plunder  ;  some ,  
because they had nothing to do at home  ;  some ,  because 
they did what the priests told them  ;  some ,  because they 
liked to see foreign countries  ;  some ,  because they were 
fond of knocking men about ,  and would as soon knock a 
Turk about as a Christian .  Robert of Normandy may have 
been influenced by all these motives  ;  and by a kind desire ,  
besides ,  to save the Christian Pilgrims from bad treatment 
in future .  He wanted to raise a number of armed men ,  and 
to go to the Crusade .  He could not do so without money .  
He had no money ;  and he sold his dominions to his 
brother ,  the Eed King ,  for five years .  With the large sum 
he thus obtained ,  he fitted out his Crusaders gallantly ,  and 
went away to Jerusalem in martial state .  The Red King ,  
who made money out of everything ,  stayed at home ,  busily 
squeezing more money out of Normans and English .  

After  " three years of great hardship and suffering— from 
shipwreck at sea  ;  from travel in strange lands  ;  from hunger 
thirst ,  and fever ,  upon the burning sands of the desert  ;  and 
from the fury of the Turks— the valiant Crusaders got 
possession of Our Saviours tomb .  The Turks were still 
resisting and fighting bravely ,  but this success increased the 
general desire in Europe to join the Crusade .  Another 
great French Duke was proposing to sell his dominions for 
a term to the rich Red King ,  when the Red Kings reign 
came to a sudden and violent end .  

You have not forgotten the New Forest which the Con -  
queror made ,  and which the miserable people whose homes 
he had laid waste ,  so hated .  The cruelty of the Forest 
Laws ,  and the torture and death they brought upon the 
peasantry ,  increased this hatred .  The poor persecuted 
country people believed that the New Forest was enchanted .  
They said that in thunder - storms ,  and on dark nights ,  
demons appeared ,  moving beneath the branches of the 
o - loomy trees .  They said that a terrible spectre had foretold 
to Norman hunters that the Red King should be punished 
there .  And now .  in the pleasant season of May .  when the 
Red King had reigned almost thirteen years  ;  and a second 



WILLIAM THE SECOND 73 

Prince of the Conquerors blood — another Kichard ,  the son 
of Duke Robert — was killed by an arrow in this dreaded 
Forest  ;  the people said that the second time was not the 
last ,  and that there was another death to come .  

It was a lonely forest ,  accursed in the peoples hearts for 
the wicked deeds that had been done to make it  ;  and no 
man save the King and his Courtiers and Huntsmen ,  liked 
to stray there .  But ,  in reality ,  it was like any other forest .  
In the spring ,  the green leaves broke out of the buds  ;  in the 
summer ,  flourished heartily ,  and made deep shades  ;  in the 
winter ,  shrivelled and blew down ,  and lay in brown heaps 
on the moss .  Some trees were stately ,  and grew high and 
strong  ;  some had fallen of themselves  ;  some were felled by 
the foresters axe  ;  some were hollow ,  and the rabbits bur -  
rowed at their roots  ;  some few were struck by lightning ,  
and stood white and bare .  There were hill - sides covered 
with rich fern ,  on which the morning dew so beautifully 
sparkled  ;  there were brooks ,  where the deer went down to 
drink ,  or over which the whole herd bounded ,  flying from 
the arrows of the huntsmen  ;  there were sunny glades ,  and 
solemn places where but little light came through the rust -  
ling leaves .  The songs of the birds in the New Forest were 
pleasanter to hear than the shouts of fighting men outside  ;  
and even when the Red King and his Court came hunting 
through its solitudes ,  cursing loud and riding hard ,  with 
a jingling of stirrups and bridles and knives and daggers ,  
they did much less harm there than among the English or 
Normans ,  and the stags died  ( as they lived )  far easier than 
the people .  

Upon a day in August ,  the Eed King ,  now reconciled to 
his brother ,  Fine - Scholar ,  came with a great train to hunt in 
the New Forest .  Fine - Scholar was of the party .  They were 
a merry party ,  and had lain all night at Malwood - Keep ,  a 
hunting - lodge in the forest ,  where they had made good cheer ,  
both at supper and breakfast ,  and had drunk a deal of wine .  
The party dispersed in various directions ,  as the custom of 
hunters then was .  The King took with him only Sir Walter 
Tyrrel ,  who was a famous sportsman ,  and to whom he had 
given ,  before they mounted horse that morning ,  two fine 
arrows .  

The last time the King was ever seen alive ,  he was riding 
with Sir Walter Tyrrel ,  and their dogs were hunting 
together .  

I .  Q 3 



5 



74 A CHILD S HISTORY OF ENGLAND 

It was almost night ,  when a poor charcoal - burner ,  passing 
through the forest with his cart ,  came upon the solitary -  
body of a dead man ,  shot with an arrow in the breast ,  and 
still bleeding .  He got it into his cart .  It was the body 
of the King .  Shaken and tumbled ,  with its red beard all 
whitened with lime and clotted with blood ,  it was driven 
in the cart by the charcoal - burner next day to Winchester 
Cathedral ,  where it was received and buried .  

Sir Walter Tyrrel ,  who escaped to Normandy ,  and claimed 
the protection of the King of France ,  swore in France that 
the Red King was suddenly shot dead by an arrow from an 
unseen hand ,  while they were hunting together  ;  that he 
was fearful of being suspected as the Kings murderer  ;  and 
that he instantly set spurs to his horse ,  and fled to the 
sea - shore .  Others declared that the King and Sir Walter 
Tyrrel were hunting in company ,  a little before sunset ,  
standing in bushes opposite one another ,  when a stag came 
between them .  That the King drew his bow and took aim ,  
but the string broke .  That the King then ciied ,   "  Shoot ,  
Walter ,  in the Devils name  !   "  That Sir Walter shot .  
That the arrow glanced against a tree ,  was turned aside 
from the stag ,  and struck the King from his horse ,  dead .  

By whose hand the Eed King really fell ,  and whether 
that hand despatched the arrow to his breast by accident 
or by design ,  is only known to God .  Some think his 
brother may have caused him to be killed  ;  but the Red 
King had made so many enemies ,  both among priests and 
people ,  that suspicion may reasonably rest upon a less 
unnatural murderer .  Men know no more than that he was 
found dead in the New Forest ,  which the suffering people 
had regarded as a doomed ground for his race .  



CHAPTER X 

ENGLAND UNDER HENRY THE FIRST ,  CALLED 
FINE - SCHOLAR 

Fine - Scholar ,  on hearing of the Red Kings death ,  hurried 
to Winchester with as much speed as Rufus himself had 
made ,  to seize the Royal treasure .  But the keeper of the 
treasure ,  who had been one of the hunting - party in the 
Forest ,  made haste to Winchester too ,  and .  arriving there 
at about the same time ,  refused to yield it up .  Upon this .  
Fine - Scholar drew his sword ,  and threatened to kill the 
treasurer ;  who might have paid for his fidelity with his 
life ,  but that he knew longer resistance to be useless when 
he found the Prince supported by a company of powerful 
barons ,  who declared they were determined to make him 
King .  The treasurer ,  therefore ,  gave up the money and 
jewels of the Crown : and on the third day after the death 
of the Red King ,  being a Sunday .  Fine - Scholar stood before 
the high altar in Westminster Abbey ,  and made a solemn 
declaration that he would resign the Church property which 
his brother had seized  ;  that he would do no wrong to the 
nobles  ;  and that he would restore to the people the laws 
of Edward the Confessor ,  with all the improvements of 
William the Conqueror .  So began the reign of King 
Henry the First .  

The people were attached to their new King ,  both because 
he had known distresses ,  and because he was an Englishman 
by birth and not a Norman .  To strengthen this last hold 
upon them ,  the King wished to many an English lady  ;  
and could think of no other wife than Maud the Good ,  
the daughter of the King of Scotland .  Although this good 
Princess did not love the King ,  she was so affected by the 
representations the nobles made to her of the great charity 
it would be in her to unite the Norman and Saxon races ,  
and prevent hatred and bloodshed between them for the 
future ,  that she consented to become his wife .  After some 
disputing among the priests ,  who said that as she had been 



76 A CHILDS HISTORY OF ENGLAND 

in a convent in her youth ,  and had worn the veil of a nun ,  
she could not lawfully be married — against which the 
Princess stated that her aunt ,  with whom she had lived 
in her youth ,  had indeed sometimes thrown a piece of 
black stuff over her ,  but for no other reason than because 
the nuns veil was the only dress the conquering Normans 
respected in girl or woman ,  and not because she had taken 
the vows of a nun ,  which she never had — she was declared 
free to marry ,  and was made King Heniys Queen .  A good 
Queen she was  ;  beautiful ,  kind - hearted ,  and worthy of 
a better husband than the King .  

For he was a cunning and unscrupulous man ,  though firm 
and clever .  He cared very little for his word ,  and took any 
means to gain his ends .  All this is shown in his treatment 
of his brother Kobert — Eobert ,  who had suffered him to be 
refreshed with water ,  and who had sent him the wine from 
his own table ,  when he was shut up ,  with the crows flying 
below him ,  parched with thirst ,  in the castle on the top of 
St .  Michaels Mount ,  where his Eed brother would have let 
him die .  

Before the King began to deal with Robert ,  he removed 
and disgraced all the favourites of the late King  ;  who were 
for the most part base characters ,  much detested by the 
people .  Flambard ,  or Firebrand ,  whom the late King had 
made Bishop of Durham ,  of all things in the world ,  Henry 
imprisoned in the Tower  ;  but Firebrand was a great joker 
and a jolly companion ,  and made himself so popular with 
his guards that they pretended to know nothing about 
a long rope that was sent into his prison at the bottom of 
a deep flagon of wine .  The guards took the wine ,  and 
Firebrand took the rope  ;  with which ,  when they were fast 
asleep ,  he let himself down from a window in the night ,  and 
so got cleverly aboard ship and away to Normandy .  

Now Robert ,  when his brother Fine - Scholar came to the 
throne ,  was still absent in the Holy Land .  Henry pretended 
that Robert had been made Sovereign of that country  ;  and 
he had been away so long ,  that the ignorant people believed 
it .  But ,  behold ,  when Henry had been some time King of 
England ,  Robert came home to Normandy  ;  having leisurely 
returned from Jerusalem through Italy ,  in which beautiful 
country he had enjoyed himself very much ,  and had married 
a lady as beautiful as itself  !  In Normandy ,  he found Fire -  
brand waiting to urge him to assert his claim to the English 



HENRY THE FIEST 77 

crown ,  and declare war against King Henry .  This ,  after 
great loss of time in feasting and dancing with his beautiful 
Italian wife among his Norman friends ,  he at last did .  

The English in general were on King Henrys side ,  though 
many of the Normans were on Roberts .  But the English 
sailors deserted the King ,  and took a great part of the 
English fleet over to Normandy  ;  so that Robert came to 
invade this country in no foreign vessels ,  but in English 
ships .  The virtuous Anselm ,  however ,  whom Henry had 
invited back from abroad ,  and made Archbishop of Canter -  
bury ,  was steadfast in the Kings cause  ;  and it was so well 
supported that the two armies ,  instead of fighting ,  made 
a peace .  Poor Robert ,  who trusted anybody and everybody ,  
readily trusted his brother ,  the King  ;  and agreed to go 
home and receive a pension from England ,  on condition 
that all his followers were fully pardoned .  This the King 
veiy faithfully promised ,  but Robert was no sooner gone 
than he began to punish them .  

Among them was the Earl of Shrewsbury ,  who ,  on being 
summoned by the King to answer to five - and - forty accusa -  
tions ,  rode away to one of his strong castles ,  shut himself 
up therein ,  called around him his tenants and vassals ,  and 
fought for his liberty ,  but was defeated and banished .  
Robert ,  with all his faults ,  was so true to his word ,  that 
when he first heard of this nobleman having risen against 
his brother ,  he laid waste the Earl of Shrewsburys estates 
in Normandy ,  to show the King that he would favour no 
breach of their treaty .  Finding ,  on better information ,  
afterwards ,  that the Earls only crime was having been his 
friend ,  he came over to England ,  in his old thoughtless 
warm - hearted way ,  to intercede with the King ,  and remind 
him of the solemn promise to pardon all his followers .  

This confidence might have put the false King to the 
blush ,  but it did not .  Pretending to be very friendly ,  he 
so surrounded his brother with spies and traps ,  that Robert ,  
who was quite in his power ,  had nothing for it but to 
renounce his pension and escape while he could .  Getting 
home to Normandy ,  and understanding the King better 
now ,  he naturally allied himself with his old friend the 
Earl of Shrewsbury ,  who had still thirty castles in that 
country .  This was exactly what Henry wanted .  He 
immediately declared that Robert had broken the tieaty ,  
and next year invaded Normandy .  



78 A CHILDS HISTORY OF ENGLAND 

He pretended that he came to deliver the Normans ,  at 
their own request ,  from his brothers misrule .  There is 
reason to fear that his misrule was bad enough ;  for his 
beautiful wife had died ,  leaving him with an infant son ,  and 
his court was again so careless ,  dissipated ,  and ill - regulated ,  
that it was said he sometimes lay in bed of a day for want 
of clothes to put on — his attendants having stolen all his 
dresses .  But he headed his army like a brave prince and 
a gallant soldier ,  though he had the misfortune to be taken 
prisoner by King Henry ,  with four hundred of his Knights .  
Among them was poor harmless Edgar Atheling ,  who loved 
Robert well .  Edgar was not important enough to be severe 
with .  The King afterwards gave him a small pension ,  
which he lived upon and died upon ,  in peace ,  among the 
quiet woods and fields of England .  

And Robert — poor ,  kind ,  generous ,  wasteful ,  heedless 
Eobert .  with so many faults ,  and yet with virtues that 
might have made a better and a happier man— what was 
the end of him ? If the King had had the magnanimity 
to say with a kind air .   " Brother ,  tell me ,  before these 
noblemen ,  that from this time you will be my faithful 
follower and friend ,  and never raise your hand against me 
or my forces more  !   "  he might have trusted Robert to the 
death .  But the King was not a magnanimous man .  He 
sentenced his brother to be confined for life in one of the 
Royal Castles .  In the beginning of his imprisonment ,  he 
was allowed to ride out .  guarded  ;  but he one day broke 
away from his guard and galloped off .  He had the evil 
fortune to ride into a swamp ,  where his horse stuck fast 
and he was taken .  When the King heard of it he ordered 
him to be blinded ,  which was done by putting a red - hot 
metal basin on his eyes .  

And so ,  in darkness and in prison ,  many years ,  he thought 
of all his past life ,  of the time he had wasted ,  of the treasure 
he had squandered ,  of the opportunities he had lost ,  of the 
youth he had thrown away ,  of the talents he had neglected .  
Sometimes ,  on fine autumn mornings ,  he would sit and 
think of the old hunting parties in the free Forest ,  where 
he had been the foremost and the gayest .  Sometimes ,  in 
the still nights ,  he would wake ,  and mourn for the many 
nights that had stolen past him at the gaming - table : some -  
times ,  would seem to hear ,  upon the melancholy wind ,  the 
old songs of the minstrels: sometimes ,  would dream ,  in 



HENRY THE FIRST 79 

his blindness ,  of the light and glitter of the Norman Court ,  
Many and many a time ,  he groped back ,  in his fancy ,  to 
Jerusalem ,  where he had fought so well  ;  or ,  at the head 
of his brave companions ,  bowed his feathered helmet to 
the shouts of welcome greeting him in Italy ,  and seemed 
again to walk among the sunny vineyards ,  or on the shore 
of the blue sea ,  with his loveiy wife .  And then ,  thinking 
of her grave ,  and of his fatherless boy ,  he would stretch out 
his solitary arms and weep .  

At length ,  one day ,  there lay in prison ,  dead ,  with cruel 
and disfiguring scars upon his eyelids ,  bandaged from his 
jailers sight ,  but on which the eternal Heavens looked 
down ,  a worn old man of eighty .  He had once been 
Eobert of Normandy .  Pity him  !  

At the time when Eobert of Normandy was taken prisoner 
by his brother ,  Roberts little son was only five years old .  
This child was taken ,  too ,  and carried before the King ,  
sobbing and crying  ;  for ,  young as he was ,  he knew he had 
good reason to be afraid of his Royal uncle .  The King was 
not much accustomed to pity those who were in his power ,  
but his cold heart seemed for the moment to soften towards 
the boy .  He was observed to make a great effort ,  as if to 
prevent himself from being cruel ,  and ordered the child to 
be taken away  ;  whereupon a certain Baron ,  who had married 
a daughter of Duke Roberts  ( by name ,  Helie of Saint Saen )  .  
took charge of him ,  tenderly .  The Kings gentleness did not 
last long .  Before two years were over ,  he sent messengers 
to this lords Castle to seize the child and bring him away .  
The Baron was not there at the time ,  but his servants were 
faithful ,  and carried the boy off in his sleep and hid him .  
When the Baron came home ,  and was told what the King -  
had done ,  he took the child abroad ,  and ,  leading him by 
the hand ,  went from King to King and from Court to Court ,  
relating how the child had a claim to the throne of England ,  
and how his uncle the King ,  knowing that he had that claim ,  
would have murdered him ,  perhaps ,  but for his escape .  

The youth and innocence of the pretty little William 
Fitz - Robert  ( for that was his name )  made him many friends 
at that time .  When he became a young man ,  the King of 
France ,  uniting with the French Counts of Anjou and 
Flanders ,  supported his cause against the King of England ,  
and took many of the Kings towns and castles in Normandy .  
But ,  King Henry ,  artful and cunning always ,  bribed some 



8o A CHILDS HISTORY OF ENGLAND 

of Williams friends with money ,  some with promises ,  some 
with power .  He bought off the Count of Anjou .  by promising 
to marry his eldest son ,  also named William ,  to the Counts 
daughter  ;  and indeed the whole trust of this Kings life was 
in such bargains ,  and he believed  ( as many another King 
has done since ,  and as one King did in France a very little 
time ago )  that every mans truth and honour can be bought 
at some price .  For all this ,  he was so afraid of William Fitz -  
Robert and his friends ,  that ,  for a long time ,  he believed 
his life to be in danger  ;  and never lay down to sleep ,  even 
in his palace surrounded by his guards ,  without having a 
sword and buckler at his bedside .  

To strengthen his power ,  the King with great ceremony 
betrothed his eldest daughter Matilda ,  then a child only 
eight years old ,  to be the wife of Henry the Fifth ,  the 
Emperor of Germany .  To raise her marriage - portion ,  he 
taxed the English people in a most oppressive manner  ;  then 
treated them to a great procession ,  to restore their good 
humour  ;  and sent Matilda away ,  in fine state ,  with the 
German ambassadors ,  to be educated in the country of her 
future husband .  

And now his Queen .  Maud the Good ,  unhappily died .  
It was a sad thought for that gentle lady ,  that the only 
hope with which she had married a man whom she had never 
loved — the hope of reconciling the Norman and English races 
— had failed .  At the very time of her death ,  Normandy and 
all France was in arms against England  ;  for ,  so soon as his 
last danger was over ,  King Henry had been false to all the 
French powers he had promised ,  bribed ,  and bought ,  and 
they had naturally united against him .  After some fighting .  
however ,  in which few suffered but the unhappy common 
people  ( who always suffered ,  whatsoever was the matter )  ,  he 
began to promise ,  bribe ,  and buy again  ;  and by those means ,  
and by the help of the Pope ,  who exerted himself to save 
more bloodshed ,  and by solemnly declaring ,  over and over 
again ,  that he really was in earnest this time ,  and would 
keep his word ,  the King made peace .  

One of the first consequences of this peace was .  that the 
King went over to Normandy with his son Prince William 
and a great retinue ,  to have the Prince acknowledged as his 
Successor by the Norman Nobles ,  and to contract the promised 
marriage  ( this was one of the many promises the King had 
broken )  between him and the daughter of the Count of Anjou .  



HENRY THE FIRST 8l 

Both these things were triumphantly done ,  with great show 
and rejoicing  ;  and on the twenty - fifth of November ,  in the 
year one thousand one hundred and twent} .  the whole retinue 
prepared to embark at the Port of Barfleur ,  for the voyage 
home .  

On that day .  and at that place ,  there came to the King ,  
Fitz - Stephen ,  a sea - captain ,  and said : 

 "  My liege ,  my father served your father all his life ,  upon 
the sea .  He steered the ship with the golden boy upon the 
prow ,  in which your father sailed to conquer England .  I 
beseech you to grant me the same office .  I have a fair vessel 
in the harbour here ,  called The White Ship ,  manned by 
fifty sailors of renown .  I pray you .  Sire ,  to let your servant 
have the honour of steering you in The White Ship to 
England  !   "  

ik I am soriy ,  friend .  "  replied the King ,  that my vessel is 
already chosen ,  and that I cannot  ( therefore )  sail with the 
son of the man who served my father .  But the Prince and 
all his company shall go along with you ,  in the fair White 
Ship ,  manned by the fifty sailors of renown .  "  

An hour or two afterwards ,  the King set sail in the vessel 
he had chosen ,  accompanied by other vessels ,  and ,  sailing all 
night with a fair and gentle wind ,  arrived upon the coast of 
England in the morning .  While it was yet night ,  the people 
in some of those ships heard a faint wild cry come over the 
sea ,  and wondered what it was .  

Now ,  the Prince was a dissolute ,  debauched young man 
of eighteen ,  who bore no love to the English ,  and had 
declared that when he came to the throne he would yoke 
them to the plough like oxen .  He went aboard The White 
Ship ,  with one hundred and forty youthful Nobles like him -  
self ,  among whom were eighteen noble ladies of the highest 
rank .  All this gay company ,  with their servants and the 
fifty sailors ,  made three hundred souls aboard the fair White 
Ship .  

 " Give three casks of wine ,  Fitz - Stephen ,  "  said the Prince .  
 "  to the fifty sailors of renown  !  My father the King has 
sailed out of the harbour .  What time is there to make merry 
here ,  and yet reach England with the rest ?  "  

 "  Prince ,  "  said Fitz - Stephen ,   "  before morning ,  my fifty and 
The White Ship shall overtake the swiftest vessel hi atten -  
dance on your father the King ,  if we sail at midnight  !   "  

Then ,  the Prince commanded to make meny  ;  and the 



82 A CHILDS HISTORY OF ENGLAND 

sailors drank out the three casks of wine  ;  and the Prince and 
all the noble company danced in the moonlight on the deck 
of The White Ship .  

When ,  at last ,  she shot out of the harbour of Barfleur .  
there was not a sober seaman on board .  But the sails were 
all set ,  and the oars all going merrily .  Fitz - Stephen had the 
helm .  The gay young nobles and the beautiful ladies ,  
wrapped in mantles of various bright colours to protect them 
from the cold ,  talked ,  laughed ,  and sang .  The Prince 
encouraged the fifty sailors to row harder yet ,  for the honour 
of The White Ship .  

Crash  !  A terrific cry broke from three hundred hearts .  
It was the cry the people in the distant vessels of the King 
heard faintly on the water .  The White Ship had struck 
upon a rock — was filling — going down  !  

Fitz - Stephen hurried the Prince into a boat ,  with some 
few Nobles .   " Push off ,  "  he whispered  ;   " and row to land .  
It is not far ,  and the sea is smooth .  The rest of us must die .  "  

But ,  as they rowed away ,  fast ,  from the sinking ship ,  the 
Prince heard the voice of his sister Marie ,  the Countess of 
Perche ,  calling for help .  He never in his life had been so 
good as he was then .  He cried in an agony ,   "  Row back at 
any risk  !  I cannot bear to leave her  !   "  

They rowed back .  As the Prince held out his arms to 
catch his sister ,  such numbers leaped in ,  that the boat was 
overset .  And in the same instant The White Ship went 
down .  

Only two men floated .  They both clung to the main yard 
of the ship ,  which had broken from the mast ,  and now 
supported them .  One asked the other who he was? He 
said ,   " I am a nobleman ,  Godfrey by name ,  the son of 
Gilbert de i / Aigle .  And you? "  said he .   " I am Berold ,  
a poor butcher of Rouen ,  "  was the answer .  Then ,  they said 
together ,   "  Lord be merciful to us both  !   "  and tried to 
encourage one another ,  as they drifted in the cold benumbing 
sea on that unfortunate November night .  

By - aud - by ,  another man came swimming towards them ,  
whom they knew ,  when he pushed aside his long wet hair ,  to 
be Fitz - Stephen .   "  Where is the Prince ?  "  said  " he .   "  Gone  !  
Gone  !   "  the two cried together .   "  Neither he ,  nor his brother ,  
nor his sister ,  nor the Kings niece ,  nor her brother ,  nor any 
one of all the brave three hundred ,  noble or commoner ,  except 
we three ,  has risen above the water  !   "  Fitz - Stephen ,  with a 



HENRY THE FIRST 83 

ghastly face ,  cried ,   "  Woe  !  woe ,  to me  !   "  and sunk to the 
bottom .  

The other two clung to the yard for some hours .  At 
length the young noble said faintly ,   "  I am exhausted ,  and 
chilled with the cold ,  and can hold no longer .  Farewell ,  
good friend  !  God preserve you  !  • So ,  he dropped and 
sunk  ;  and of all the brilliant crowd ,  the poor Butcher of 
Eouen alone was saved .  In the morning ,  some fishermen saw 
him floating in his sheep - skin coat ,  and got him into their 
boat — the sole relater of the dismal tale .  

For three days ,  no one dared to carry the intelligence to 
the King .  At length ,  they sent into his presence a little boy ,  
who ,  weeping bitterly ,  and kneeling at his feet ,  told him that 
The White Ship was lost with all on board .  The King fell 
to the ground like a dead man ,  and never ,  never afterwards ,  
was seen to smile .  

But he plotted again ,  and promised again ,  and bribed and 
bought again ,  in his old deceitful way .  Having no son to 
succeed him ,  after all his pains  (  "  The Prince will never yoke 
us to the plough ,  now  !   "  said the English people )  ,  he took a 
second wife — Adelais or Alice ,  a dukes daughter ,  and the 
Popes niece .  Having no more children ,  however ,  he proposed 
to the Barons to swear that they would recognise as his 
successor ,  his daughter Matilda ,  whom ,  as she was now a 
widow ,  he married to the eldest son of the Count of Anjou ,  
Geoffrey ,  surnamed Plantagenet ,  from a custom he had of 
wearing a sprig of flowering broom  ( called Genet in French )  
in his cap for a feather .  As one false man usually makes 
many ,  and as a false King ,  in particular ,  is pretty certain to 
make a false Court ,  the Barons took the oath about the 
succession of Matilda  ( and her children after her )  ,  twice over ,  
without in the least intending to keep it .  The King was 
now relieved from any remaining fears of William Fitz - Kobert ,  
by his death in the Monastery of St .  Omer ,  in France ,  at 
twenty - six years old ,  of a pike - wound in the hand .  And as 
Matilda gave birth to three sons ,  he thought the succession 
to the throne secure .  

He spent most of the latter part of his life ,  which was 
troubled by family quarrels ,  in Normandy ,  to be near 
Matilda .  When he had reigned upwards of thirty - five years ,  
and was sixty - seven years old ,  he died of an indigestion and 
fever ,  brought on by eating ,  when he was far from well ,  of a 
fish called Lamprey ,  against which he had often been cautioned 



84 A CHILDS HISTORY OF ENGLAND 

by his physicians .  His remains were brought over to Reading 
Abbey to be buried .  

You ma} perhaps hear the cunning and promise - breaking 
of King Henry the First ,  called  "  policy  "  by some people ,  
and  "  diplomacy  "  by others .  Neither of these fine words will 
in the least mean that it was true  ;  and nothing that is not 
true can possibly be good .  

His greatest merit ,  that I know of ,  was his love of learning .  
I should have given him greater credit even for that ,  if it 
had been strong enough to induce him to spare the eyes of a 
certain poet he once took prisoner ,  who was a knight besides .  
But he ordered the poets eyes to be torn from his head ,  
because he had laughed at him in his verses  ;  and the poet ,  
in the pain of that torture ,  dashed out his own brains against 
his prison wall .  King Henry the First was avaricious ,  re -  
vengeful ,  and so false ,  that I suppose a man never lived 
whose word was less to be relied upon .  



CHAPTER XI 

ENGLAND UNDER MATILDA AND STEPHEN 

The King was no sooner dead than all the plans and schemes 
he had laboured at so long ,  and lied so much for ,  crumbled 
away like a hollow heap of sand .  Stephen ,  whom he had 
never mistrusted or suspected ,  started up to claim the 
throne .  

Stephen was the son of Adela ,  the Conquerors daughter ,  
married to the Count of Blois .  To Stephen ,  and to his 
brother Henry ,  the late King had been liberal  ;  making 
Henry Bishop of Winchester ,  and finding a good marriage 
for Stephen ,  and much enriching him .  This did not prevent 
Stephen from hastily producing a false witness ,  a servant of 
the late King ,  to swear that the King had named him for 
his heir  - >pon his death - bed .  On this evidence the Arch -  
bishop of Canterbury crowned him .  The new King ,  so 
suddenly made ,  lost not a moment in seizing the Royal 
treasure ,  and hiring foreign soldiers with some of it to pro -  
tect his throne .  

If the dead King had even done as the false witness said ,  
he would have had small right to will away the English 
people ,  like so many sheep or oxen ,  without their consent .  
But he had ,  in fact ,  bequeathed all his territory to Matilda  ;  
who ,  supported by Robert ,  Earl of Gloucester ,  soon began 
to dispute the crown .  Some of the powerful barons and 
priests took her side  ;  some took Stephens  ;  all fortified their 
castles  ;  and again the miserable English people were involved 
in war ,  from which they could never derive advantage who -  
soever was victorious ,  and in which all parties plundered ,  
tortured ,  starved ,  and ruined them .  

Five years had passed since the death of Henry the First 
— and during those five years there had been two terrible 
invasions by the people of Scotland under their King .  David ,  
who was at last defeated with all his army — when Matilda ,  
attended by her brother Robert and a large force ,  appeared 



86 A CHILDS HISTOKY OF ENGLAND 

in England to maintain her claim .  A battle was fought 
between her troops and King Stephens at Lincoln  ;  in which 
the King himself was taken prisoner ,  after bravely fighting 
until his battle - axe and sword were broken ,  and was carried 
into strict confinement at Gloucester .  Matilda then sub -  
mitted herself to the Priests ,  and the Priests crowned her 
Queen of England .  

She did not long enjoy this dignity .  The people of London 
had a great affection for Stephen  ;  many of the Barons con -  
sidered it degrading to be ruled by a woman  ;  and the 
Queens temper was so haughty that she made innumerable 
enemies .  The people of London revolted  ;  and ,  in alliance 
with the troops of Stephen ,  besieged her at Winchester ,  
where they took her brother Robert prisoner ,  whom ,  as her 
best soldier and chief general ,  she was glad to exchange for 
Stephen himself ,  who thus regained his liberty .  Then ,  the 
long war went on afresh .  Once ,  she was pressed so hard 
in the Castle of Oxford ,  in the winter weather when the 
snow lay thick upon the ground ,  that her only chance of 
escape was to dress herself all in white ,  and ,  accompanied 
by no more than three faithful Knights ,  dressed in like 
manner that their figures might not be seen from Stephens 
camp as they passed over the snow ,  to steal away on foot ,  
cross the frozen Thames ,  walk a long distance ,  and at last 
gallop away on horseback .  All this she did ,  but to no 
great purpose then  ;  for her brother dying while the struggle 
was yet going on ,  she at last withdrew to Normandy .  

In two or three years after her withdrawal her cause 
appeared in England ,  afresh ,  in the person of her son Henry ,  
young Plantagenet ,  who at only eighteen years of age ,  was 
very powerful : not only on account of his mother having 
resigned all Normandy to him ,  but also from his having 
married Eleanor ,  the divorced wife of the French King ,  
a bad woman ,  who had great possessions in France .  Louis ,  
the French King ,  not relishing this arrangement ,  helped 
Eustace ,  King Stephens son ,  to invade Normandy : but 
Henry drove their united forces out of that country ,  and 
then returned here ,  to assist his partisans ,  whom the King 
Avas then besieging at Wallingford upon the Thames .  Here ,  
for two days ,  divided only by the river ,  the two armies lay 
encamped opposite to one another — on the eve ,  as it seemed 
to all men .  of another desperate fight ,  when the Earl of 
Arundel took heart and said that it was not reasonable to 



MATILDA AND STEPHEN 87 

prolong the unspeakable miseries of two kingdoms to minister 
to the ambition of two princes .  "  

Many other noblemen repeating and supporting this when 
it was once uttered ,  Stephen and young Plantagenet went 
down ,  each to his own bank of the river ,  and held a con -  
versation across it ,  in which they arranged a truce  ;  very 
much to the dissatisfaction of Eustace ,  who swaggered 
away with some followers ,  and laid violent hands on the 
Abbey of St .  Edmunds - Bury ,  where he presently died mad .  
The truce led to a solemn council at Winchester ,  in which 
it was agreed that Stephen should retain the crown ,  on 
condition of his declaring Henry his successor  ;  that William ,  
another son of the Kings ,  should inherit his fathers right -  
ful possessions  ;  and that all the Crown lands which Stephen 
had given away should be recalled ,  and all the Castles he 
had permitted to be built demolished .  Thus terminated 
the bitter war ,  which had now lasted fifteen years ,  and had 
again laid England waste .  In the next year Stephen died ,  
after a troubled reign of nineteen years .  

Although King Stephen was ,  for the time in which he 
lived ,  a humane and moderate man ,  with many excellent 
qualities  ;  and although nothing worse is known of him 
than his usurpation of the Crown ,  which he probably ex -  
cused to himself by the consideration that King Henry the 
First was an usurper too— which was no excuse at all  ;  
the people of England suffered more in these dread nineteen 
years ,  than at any former period even of their suffering 
history .  In the division of the nobility between the two 
rival claimants of the Crown ,  and in the growth of what 
is called the Feudal System  ( which made the peasants the 
born vassals and mere slaves of the Barons )  ,  every Noble 
had his strong Castle ,  where he reigned the cruel king of 
all the neighbouring people .  Accordingly ,  he perpetrated 
whatever cruelties he chose .  And never were worse cruel -  
ties committed upon earth than in wretched England in those 
nineteen years .  

The writers who were living then describe them fearfully .  
They say that the castles were filled with devils rather than 
with men  ;  that the peasants ,  men and women ,  were put 
into dungeons for their gold and silver ,  were tortured with 
fire and smoke ,  were hung up by the thumbs ,  were hung 
up by the heels with great weights to their heads ,  were torn 
with jagged irons ,  killed with hunger ,  broken to death in 



88 A CHILD . S HISTORY OF ENGLAND 

narrow chests filled with sharp - pointed stones ,  murdered 
in countless fiendish ways .  In England there was no corn ,  
no meat ,  no cheese ,  no butter ,  there were no tilled lands ,  
no harvests .  Ashes of burnt towns ,  and dreary wastes ,  were 
all that the traveller ,  fearful of the robbers who prowled 
abroad at all hours ,  would see in a long days jouiney : and 
from sunrise until night ,  he would not come upon a home .  

The clergy sometimes suffered ,  and heavily too ,  from 
pillage ,  but many of them had castles of their own ,  and 
fought in helmet and armour like the barons ,  and drew lots 
with other fighting men for their share of booty .  The Pope 
 ( or Bishop of Rome )  ,  on King Stephens resisting his ambi -  
tion ,  laid England under an Interdict at one period of this 
reign  ;  which means that he allowed no service to be per -  
formed in the churches ,  no couples to be married ,  no bells 
to be rung ,  no dead bodies to be buried .  Any man having 
the power to refuse these things ,  no matter whether he were 
called a Pope or a Poulterer ,  would ,  of course ,  have the 
power of afflicting numbers of innocent people .  That nothing 
might be wanting to the miseries of King Stephens time ,  
the Pope threw in this contribution to the public store — not 
very like the widows contribution ,  as I think ,  when Our 
Saviour sat in Jerusalem over against the Treasury ,   "  and 
she threw in two mites ,  which make a farthing .  "  



CHAPTER XII 

ENGLAND UNDER HENRY THE SECOND 

Part the First .  

Henry Plantagenet ,  when he was but twenty - one years old ,  
quietly succeeded to the throne of England ,  according to his 
agreement made with the late King at Winchester .  Six 
weeks after Stephens death ,  he and his Queen ,  Eleanor ,  
were crowned in that city  ;  into which they rode on horse -  
back in great state ,  side by side ,  amidst much shouting and 
rejoicing ,  and clashing of music ,  and strewing of flowers .  

The reign of King Henry the Second began well .  The 
King had great possessions ,  and  ( what with his own rights ,  
and what with those of his wife )  was lord of one - third part 
of France .  He was a young man of vigour ,  ability ,  and 
resolution ,  and immediately applied himself to remove some 
of the evils which had arisen in the last unhappy reign .  
He revoked all the grants of land that had been hastily 
made ,  on either side ,  during the late struggles  ;  he obliged 
numbers of disorderly soldiers to depart from England  ;  he 
reclaimed all the castles belonging to the Crown  ;  and he 
forced the wicked nobles to pull down their own castles ,  
to the number of eleven hundred ,  in which such dismal 
cruelties had been inflicted on the people .  The Kings 
brother ,  Geoffrey ,  rose against him in France ,  while he 
was so well employed ,  and rendered it necessary for him 
to repair to that country  ;  where ,  after he had subdued and 
made a friendly arrangement with his brother  ( who did not 
live long )  ,  his ambition to increase his possessions involved 
him in a war with the French King ,  Louis ,  with whom he 
had been on such friendly terms just before ,  that to the 
French Kings infant daughter ,  then a baby in the cradle ,  
he had promised one of his little sons in marriage ,  who was 
a child of five years old .  However ,  the war came to nothing 
at last ,  and the Pope made the two Kings friends again .  



90 A CHILD S HISTORY OF ENGLAND 

Now ,  the clergy ,  in the troubles of the last reign ,  had 
gone on very ill indeed .  There were all kinds of criminals 
among them— murderers ,  thieves ,  and vagabonds  ;  and the 
worst of the matter was ,  that the good priests would not 
give up the bad priests to justice ,  when they committed 
crimes ,  but persisted in sheltering and defending them .  
The King ,  well knowing that there could be no peace or 
rest in England while such things lasted ,  resolved to reduce 
the power of the clergy  ;  and ,  when he had reigned seven 
years ,  found  ( as he considered )  a good opportunity for doing 
so ,  in the death of the Archbishop of Canterbury .   "  I will 
have for the new Archbishop ,  "  thought the King ,   " a friend 
in whom I can trust ,  who will help me to humble these 
rebellious priests ,  and to have them dealt with ,  when they 
do wrong ,  as other men who do wrong are dealt with .  So ,  
he resolved to make his favourite ,  the new Archbishop  ;  
and this favourite was so extraordinary a man ,  and his 
story is so curious ,  that I must tell you all about him .  

Once upon a time ,  a worthy merchant of London ,  named 
Gilbert a Becket ,  made a pilgrimage to the Holy Land ,  
and was taken prisoner by a Saracen lord .  This lord ,  who 
treated him kindly and not like a slave ,  had one fair daughter ,  
who fell in love with the merchant  ;  and who told him that 
she wanted to become a Christian ,  and was willing to marry 
him if they could fly to a Christian country .  The merchant 
returned her love ,  until he found an opportunity to escape ,  
when he did not trouble himself about the Saracen lady ,  
but escaped with his servant Richard ,  who had been taken 
prisoner along with him ,  and arrived in England and forgot 
her .  The Saracen lady ,  who was more loving than the 
merchant ,  left her fathers house in disguise to follow him ,  
and made her way ,  under many hardships ,  to the sea - shore .  
The merchant had taught her only two English words  ( for 
I suppose he must have learnt the Saracen tongue himself ,  
and made love in that language )  ,  of which London* was one ,  
and his own name ,  Gilbert ,  the other .  She went among 
the ships ,  saying .   "  London  !  London  !   "  over and over 
again ,  until the sailors understood that she wanted to find 
an English vessel that woidd carry her there  ;  so they showed 
her such a ship ,  and she paid for her passage with some of 
her jewels ,  and sailed away .  Well  !  The merchant was 
sitting in his counting - house in London one day .  when he 
heard a great noise in the street  ;  and presently Richard 



HENRY THE SECOND 91 

came running in from the warehouse ,  with his eyes wide 
open and his breath almost gone ,  saying ,   "  Master ,  master ,  
here is the Saracen lady  !   "  The merchant thought Kichard 
was mad ;  but Kichard said ,   " No ,  master !  As I live ,  the 
Saracen lady is going up and down the city ,  calling Gilbert  !  
Gilbert  !   "  Then ,  he took the merchant by the sleeve ,  and 
pointed out at window  ;  and there they saw her among the 
gables and water - spouts of the dark dirty street ,  in her 
foreign dress ,  so forlorn ,  surrounded by a wondering crowd ,  
and passing slowly along ,  calling Gilbert ,  Gilbert  !  When 
the merchant saw her ,  and thought of the tenderness she 
had shown him in his captivity ,  and of her constancy ,  his 
heart was moved ,  and he ran down into the street  ;  and she 
saAV him coming ,  and with a great cry fainted in his arms .  
They were married without loss of time ,  and Richard  ( who 
was an excellent man )  danced with joy the whole day of the 
wedding  ;  and they all lived happy ever afterwards .  

This merchant and this Saracen lady had one son ,  Thomas 
a Becket .  He it was who became the Favourite of King 
Henry the Second .  

He had become Chancellor ,  when the King thought of 
making him Archbishop .  He was clever ,  gay ,  well educated ,  
brave  ;  had fought in several battles in France  ;  had defeated 
a French knight in single combat ,  and brought his horse 
away as a token of the victory .  He lived in a noble palace ,  
he was the tutor of the young Prince Henry ,  he was served 
by one hundred and forty knights ,  his riches were immense .  
The King once sent him as his ambassador to France  ;  and 
the French people ,  beholding in what state he travelled ,  
cried out in the streets ,   "  How splendid must the King of 
England be ,  when this is only the Chancellor  !   "  They had 
good reason to wonder at the magnificence of Thomas a 
Becket ,  for ,  when he entered a French town ,  his procession 
was headed by two hundred and fifty singing boys  ;  then ,  
came his hounds in couples  ;  then ,  eight waggons ,  each drawn 
by five horses driven by five drivers : two of the waggons 
filled with strong ale to be given away to the people  ;  four ,  
with his gold and silver plate and stately clothes  ;  two .  with 
the dresses of his numerous servants .  Then ,  came twelve 
horses ,  each with a monkey on his back  ;  then ,  a train of 
people bearing shields and leading fine war - horses splendidly 
equipped : then ,  falconers with hawks upon their wrists  ;  
then ,  a host of knights ,  and gentlemen and priests  ;  then ,  



92 A CHILDS HISTORY OF ENGLAND 

the Chancellor with his brilliant garments flashing in 
the sun ,  and all the people capering and shouting with 
delight .  

The King was well pleased with all this ,  thinking that it 
only made himself the more magnificent to have so magnifi -  
cent a favourite  ;  but he sometimes jested with the Chancellor 
upon his splendour too .  Once ,  when they were riding 
together through the streets of London in hard winter 
weather ,  they saw a shivering old man in rags .   "  Look at 
the poor object !  "  said the King .  Would it not be a 
charitable act to give that aged man a comfortable warm 
cloak? "  i ;  Undoubtedly it would . * said Thomas a Becket ,  
and you do well ,  Sir ,  to think of such Christian duties .  
 "  Come  !   "  cried the King ,   "  then give him your cloak  !   "  It 
was made of rich crimson trimmed with ermine .  The King 
tried to pull it off ,  the Chancellor tried to keep it on ,  both 
were near rolling from their saddles in the mud ,  when the 
Chancellor submitted ,  and the King gave the cloak to the 
old beggar : much to the beggars astonishment ,  and much 
to the merriment of all the courtiers in attendance .  For .  
courtiers are not only eager to laugh when the King laughs ,  
but they really do enjoy a laugh against a Favourite .  

 " I will make ,  "  thought King Henry the Second ,   " this 
Chancellor of mine ,  Thomas a Becket .  Archbishop of 
Canterbury .  He will then be the head of the Church ,  and ,  
being devoted to me ,  will help me to correct the Church .  
He has always upheld my power against the power of the 
clergy ,  and once publicly told some bishops  ( I remember )  ,  
that men of the Church were equally bound to me with men 
of the sword .  Thomas a Becket is the man ,  of all other 
men in England ,  to help me in my great design .  "  So the 
King ,  regardless of all objection ,  either that he was a fight -  
ing man ,  or a lavish man ,  or a courtly man ,  or a man of 
pleasure ,  or anything but a likely man for the office ,  made 
him Archbishop accordingly .  

Now ,  Thomas a Becket was proud and loved to be famous .  
He was already famous for the pomp of his life ,  for his 
riches ,  his gold and silver plate ,  his waggons ,  horses ,  and 
attendants .  He could do no more in that way than he had 
done  ;  and being tired of that kind of fame  ( which is a very 
poor one )  ,  he longed to have his name celebrated for some -  
thing else .  Nothing ,  he knew ,  would render him so famous 
in the world ,  as the setting of his utmost power and ability 



HENRY THE SECOND 93 

against the utmost power and ability of the King .  He 
resolved with the whole strength of his mind to do it .  

He may have had some secret grudge against the King 
besides .  The King may have offended his proud humour at 
some time or other ,  for anything I know .  I think it likely ,  
because it is a common thing for Kings ,  Princes ,  and other 
great people ,  to tiy the tempers of their favourites rather 
severely .  Even the little affair of the crimson cloak must 
have been anything but a pleasant one to a haughty man .  
Thomas a Becket knew better than any one in England what 
the King expected of him .  In all his sumptuous life ,  he 
had never yet been in a position to disappoint the King .  
He could take up that proud stand now ,  as head of the 
Church  ;  and he determined that it should be written in 
history ,  either that he subdued the King ,  or that the King 
subdued him .  

So ,  of a sudden ,  he completely altered the whole manner 
of his life .  He turned off all his brilliant followers ,  ate 
coarse food ,  drank bitter water ,  wore next his skin sack -  
cloth covered with dirt and vermin  ( for it was then thought 
very religious to be very dirty )  ,  flogged his back to punish 
himself ,  lived chiefly in a little cell ,  washed the feet of 
thirteen poor people every day .  and looked as miserable as 
he possibly could .  If he had put twelve hundred monkeys 
on horseback instead of twelve ,  and had gone in procession 
with eight thousand waggons instead of eight ,  he could not 
have half astonished the people so much as by this great 
change .  It soon caused him to be more talked about as an 
Archbishop than he had been as a Chancellor .  

The King was very angry  ;  and was made still more so ,  when 
the new Archbishop ,  claiming various estates from the nobles 
as being rightfully Church property ,  required the King him -  
self ,  for the same reason ,  to give up Kochester Castle ,  and 
Kochester City too .  Not satisfied with this ,  he declared that 
no power but himself should appoint a priest to any Church 
in the part of England over which he was Archbishop  ;  and 
when a certain gentleman of Kent made such an appoint -  
ment ,  as he claimed to have the right to do ,  Thomas a Becket 
excommunicated him .  

Excommunication was ,  next to the Interdict I told you 
of at the close of the last chapter ,  the great weapon of the 
clergy .  It consisted in declaring the person who was excom -  
municated ,  an outcast from the Church and from all religious 



94 A CHILDS HISTORY OF ENGLAND 

offices  ;  and in cursing him all over ,  from the top of his head 
to the sole of his foot ,  whether he was standing up ,  lying 
down ,  sitting ,  kneeling ,  walking ,  running ,  hopping ,  jumping ,  
gaping ,  coughing ,  sneezing ,  or whatever else he was doing .  
This unchristian nonsense would of course have made no sort 
of difference to the person cursed — who could say his prayers 
at home if he were shut out of church ,  and whom none but 
God could judge — but for the fears and superstitions of the 
people ,  who avoided excommunicated persons ,  and made their 
lives unhappy .  So ,  the King said to the new Archbishop ,  
 "  Take off this Excommunication from this gentleman of 
Kent .  "  To which the Archbishop replied ,  I shall do no 
such thing .  "  

The quarrel went on .  A priest in Worcestershire com -  
mitted a most dreadful murder ,  that aroused the horror of 
the whole nation .  The King demanded to have this wretch 
delivered up ,  to be tried in the same court and in the same 
way as any other murderer .  The Archbishop refused ,  and 
kept him in the Bishops prison .  The King ,  holding a solemn 
assembly in Westminster Hall ,  demanded that in future all 
priests found guilty before their Bishops of crimes against the 
law of the land should be considered priests no longer ,  and 
should be delivered over to the law of the land for punish -  
ment .  The Archbishop again refused .  The King required 
to know whether the clergy would obey the ancient customs 
of the country? Every priest there ,  but one .  said ,  after 
Thomas a Becket ,   " Saving my order .  "  This really meant 
that they would only obey those customs when they did not 
interfere with their own claims  ;  and the King went out of 
the Hall in great wrath .  

Some of the clergy began to be afraid ,  now .  that they 
were going too far .  Though Thomas a Becket was other -  
wise as unmoved as Westminster Hall ,  they prevailed upon 
him ,  for the sake of their fears ,  to go to the King at Wood -  
stock ,  and promise to observe the ancient customs of the 
countiy ,  without saying anything about his order .  The King -  
received this submission favourably ,  and summoned a great 
council of the clergy to meet at the Castle of Clarendon ,  by 
Salisbury .  But when the council met ,  the Archbishop again 
insisted on the words  "  saving my order  ;   "  and he still in -  
sisted ,  though lords entreated him ,  and priests wept before 
him and knelt to him ,  and an adjoining room was thrown 
open ,  rilled with armed soldiers of the King ,  to threaten him .  



HENRY THE SECOND 95 

At length he gave way ,  for that time ,  and the ancient 
customs  ( which included what the King had demanded in 
vain )  were stated in writing ,  and were signed and sealed by 
the chief of the clergy ,  and were called the Constitutions of 
Clarendon .  

The quarrel went on ,  for all that .  The Archbishop tried 
to see the King .  The King would not see him .  The Arch -  
bishop tried to escape from England .  The sailors on the 
coast would launch no boat to take him away .  Then ,  he 
again resolved to do his worst in opposition to the King ,  and 
began openly to set the ancient customs at defiance .  

The King summoned him before a great council at North -  
ampton ,  where he accused him of high treason ,  and made a 
claim against him ,  which was not a just one ,  for an enormous 
sum of money .  Thomas a Becket was alone against the 
whole assembly ,  and the very Bishops advised him to resign 
his office and abandon his contest with the King .  His great 
anxiety and agitation stretched him on a sick - bed for two 
days ,  but he was still undaunted .  He went to the adjourned 
council ,  carrying a great cross in his right hand ,  and sat 
down holding it erect before him .  The King angrily retired 
into an inner room .  The whole assembly angrily retired and 
left him there .  But there he sat .  The Bishops came out 
again in a body ,  and renounced him as a traitor .  He only 
said ,   "  I hear  !   "  and sat there still .  They retired again into 
the inner room ,  and his trial proceeded without him .  By -  
and - by ,  the Earl of Leicester ,  heading the barons ,  came out 
to read his sentence .  He refused to hear it ,  denied the power 
of the court ,  and said he would refer his cause to the Pope .  
As he walked out of the hall ,  with the cross in his hand ,  
some of those present picked up rushes — rushes were strewn 
upon the floors in those days by way of carpet — and threw 
them at him .  He proudly turned his head ,  and said that 
were he not Archbishop ,  he would chastise those cowards 
with the sword he had known how to use in bygone days .  
He then mounted his horse ,  and rode away ,  cheered and 
surrounded by the common people ,  to whom he threw open 
his house that night and gave a supper ,  supping with them 
himself .  That same night he secretly departed from the 
town  ;  and so ,  travelling by night and hiding by day ,  and 
calling himself  "  Brother Dearman ,  "  got away ,  not without 
difficulty ,  to Flanders .  

The struggle still went on .  The angry King took posses -  



96 A CHILD S HISTORY OF EXOLAND 

sion of the revenues of the archbishopric ,  and banished all 
the relations and servants of Thomas a Becket ,  to the number 
of four hundred .  The Pope and the French King both pro -  
tected him ,  and an abbey was assigned for his residence .  
Stimulated by this support ,  Thomas a Becket ,  on a great 
festival day ,  formally proceeded to a great church crowded 
with people ,  and going up into the pulpit publicly cursed 
and excommunicated all who had supported the Constitutions 
of Clarendon : mentioning many English noblemen by name ,  
and not distantly hinting at the King of England himself .  

When intelligence of this new affront was carried to the 
King in his chamber ,  his passion was so furious that he tore 
his clothes ,  and rolled like a madman on his bed of straw 
and rushes .  But he was soon up and doing .  He ordered 
all the ports and coasts of England to be narrowly watched ,  
that no letters of Interdict might be brought into the king -  
dom  ;  and sent messengers and bribes to the Popes palace 
at Kome .  Meanwhile ,  Thomas a Becket ,  for his part ,  was 
not idle at Kome ,  but constantly employed his utmost arts 
in his own behalf .  Thus the contest stood ,  until there was 
peace between France and England  ( which had been for 
some time at war )  ,  and until the two children of the two 
Kings were married in celebration of it .  Then ,  the French 
King brought about a meeting between Henry and his old 
favourite ,  so long his enemy .  

Even then ,  though Thomas a Becket knelt before the King ,  
he was obstinate and immovable as to those words about his 
order .  King Louis of France was weak enough in his 
veneration for Thomas a Becket and such men ,  but this was 
a little too much for him .  He said that a Becket  " wanted 
to be greater than the saints and better than St .  Peter ,  "  
and rode away from him with the King of England .  His 
poor French Majesty asked a Beckefs pardon for so doing ,  
however ,  soon afterwards ,  and cut a very pitiful figure .  

At last ,  and after a world of trouble ,  it came to this .  
There was another meeting on French ground between King 
Henry and Thomas a Becket ,  and it was agreed that Thomas 
a Becket should be Archbishop of Canterbury ,  according to 
the customs of former Archbishops ,  and that the King should 
put him in possession of the revenues of that post .  And 
now .  indeed ,  you might suppose the struggle at an end .  and 
Thomas a Becket at rest .  No .  not even yet .  For Thomas 
a Becket hearing ,  by some means ,  that King Henry ,  when 



HENRY THE SECOND 97 

he was in dread of his kingdom being placed under an inter -  
dict ,  had had his eldest son Prince Henry secretly crowned ,  
not only persuaded the Pope to suspend the Archbishop of 
York who had performed that ceremony ,  and to excommuni -  
cate the Bishops who had assisted at it ,  but sent a messenger 
of his own into England ,  in spite of all the Kings precautions 
along the coast ,  who delivered the letters of excommunication 
into the Bishops own hands .  Thomas a Becket then came 
over to England himself ,  after an absence of seven years .  
He w T as privately warned that it was dangerous to come ,  and 
that an ireful knight ,  named Eanulf de Broc ,  had threatened 
that he should not live to eat a loaf of bread in England  ;  
but he came .  

The common people received him well ,  and marched about 
with him in a soldierly way ,  armed with such rustic weapons 
as they could get .  He tried to see the young prince who 
had once been his pupil ,  but was prevented .  He hoped for 
some little support among the nobles and priests ,  but found 
none .  He made the most of the peasants who attended him ,  
and feasted them ,  and went from Canterbury to Harrow - on -  
the - Hill ,  and from Harrow - on - the - Hill back to Canterbury ,  
and on Christmas Day preached in the Cathedral there ,  and 
told the people in his sermon that he had come to die among 
them ,  and that it w r as likely he would be murdered .  He 
had no fear ,  however — or ,  if he had any ,  he had much more 
obstinacy — for he ,  then and there ,  excommunicated three of 
his enemies ,  of w r hom Eanulf de Broc the ireful knight was 
one .  

As men in general had no fancy for being cursed ,  in their 
sitting and walking ,  and gaping and sneezing ,  and all the 
rest of it ,  it w r as very natural in the persons so freely 
excommunicated to complain to the King .  It was equally 
natural in the King ,  who had hoped that this troublesome 
opponent w r as at last quieted ,  to fall into a mighty rage when 
he heard of these new affronts  ;  and ,  on the Archbishop of 
York telling him that he never could hope for rest while 
Thomas a Becket lived ,  to cry out hastily before his court ,  
 "  Have I no one here who will deliver me from this man?  .  
There were four knights present ,  who ,  hearing the Kings 
words ,  looked at one another ,  and w r ent out .  

The names of these knights were Eeginald Fitzurse ,  
William Tracy ,  Hugh de Morville ,  and Eichard Brito  ;  
three of whom had been in the train of Thomas a Becket in 

I .  R 



98 A CHILDS HISTORY OF ENGLAND 

the old days of his splendour .  They rode away on horse -  
back ,  in a very secret manner ,  and on the third day after 
Christmas Day arrived at Saltwood House ,  not far from 
Canterbury ,  which belonged to the family of Eanulf de Broc .  
They quietly collected some followers here ,  in case they 
should need any  ;  and proceeding to Canterbury ,  suddenly 
appeared  ( the four knights and twelve men )  before the Arch -  
bishop ,  in his own house ,  at two oclock in the afternoon .  
They neither bowed nor spoke ,  but sat down on the floor in 
silence ,  staring at the Archbishop .  

Thomas a Becket said ,  at length ,   " What do you want? "  

 "  We want .  "  said Reginald Fitzurse .   "  the excommunication 
taken from the Bishops ,  and you to answer for your offences 
to the King .  "  

Thomas a Becket defiantly replied ,  that the power of the 
clergy was above the power of the King .  That it was not 
for such men as they were ,  to threaten him .  That if he 
were threatened by all the swords in England ,  he would 
never yield .  

 "  Then we will do more than threaten  !   "  said the knights .  
And they went out with the twelve men ,  and put on their 
armour ,  and drew their shining swords ,  and came back .  

His servants ,  in the meantime ,  had shut up and barred 
the great gate of the palace .  At first ,  the knights tried to 
shatter it with their battle - axes : but .  being shown a window 
by which they could enter ,  they let the gate alone ,  and 
climbed in that way .  While they were battering at the 
door ,  the attendants of Thomas a Becket had implored him 
to take refuge in the Cathedral : in which ,  as a sanctuary or 
sacred place ,  they thought the knights would dare to do no 
violent deed .  He told them ,  again and again ,  that he would 
not stir .  Hearing the distant voices of the monks singing 
the evening service ,  however ,  he said it was now his duty to 
attend ,  and therefore ,  and for no other reason ,  he would go .  

There was a near way between his Palace and the 
Cathedral ,  by some beautiful old cloisters which you may 
yet see .  He went into the Cathedral ,  without any hurry ,  
and having the Cross carried before him as usual .  When 
he was safely there ,  his servants would have fastened the 
door ,  but he said No  !  it was the house of God and not 
a fortress .  

As he spoke ,  the shadow of Reginald Fitzurse appeared in 
the Cathedral doorway ,  darkening the little light there was 



HENRY THE SECOND 99 

outside ,  on the dark winter evening .  This knight said ,  in a 
strong voice ,   "  Follow me ,  loyal servants of the King  !   "  The 
rattle of the armour of the other knights echoed through the 
Cathedral ,  as they came clashing in .  

It was so dark ,  in the lofty aisles and among the stately 
pillars of the church ,  and there were so many hiding - places 
in the crypt below and in the narrow passages above ,  that 
Thomas a Becket might even at that pass have saved him -  
self if he would .  But he would not .  He told the monks 
resolutely that he would not .  And though they all dispersed 
and left him there with no other follower than Edward 
Gryme ,  his faithful cross - bearer ,  he  " was as firm then ,  as 
ever he had been in his life .  

The knights came on ,  through the darkness ,  making a 
terrible noise with their armed tread upon the stone pave -  
ment of the church .  u Where is the traitor ?  "  they cried 
out .  He made no answer .  But when they  . cried ,   " Where 
is the Archbishop? "  he said proudly ,   " I am here !  "  and 
came out of the shade and stood before them .  

The knights had no desire to kill him .  if they could rid 
the King and themselves of him by any other means .  They 
told him he must either fly or go with them .  He said he 
would do neither  ;  and he threw William Tracy off with 
such force when he took hold of his sleeve ,  that Tracy reeled 
again .  By his reproaches and his steadiness ,  he so incensed 
them ,  and exasperated their fierce humour ,  that Beginald 
Fitzurse ,  whom he called by an ill name ,  said .   "  Then die  !   "  
and struck at his head .  But the faithful Edward Gryme 
put out his arm ,  and there received the main force of the 
blow ,  so that it only made his master bleed .  Another voice 
from among the knights again called to Thomas a Becket to 
fly  ;  but ,  with his blood running down his face ,  and his 
hands clasped ,  and his head bent ,  he commended himself to 
God ,  and stood firm .  Then they cruelly killed him close to 
the altar of St .  Bennet  ;  and his body fell upon the pave -  
ment ,  which was dirtied with his blood and brains .  

It is an awful thing to think of the murdered mortal ,  
who had so showered his curses about ,  lying ,  all disfigured .  
in the church ,  where a few lamps here and there were but 
red specks on a pall of darkness  ;  and to think of the guilty 
knights riding away on horseback ,  looking over their 
shoulders at the dim Cathedral ,  and remembering what thev 
had left inside .  



IOO A CHILD S HISTORY OF ENGLAND 

Part the Second .  

When the King heard how Thomas a Becket had lost his 
life in Canterbury Cathedral ,  through the ferocity of the 
four Knights ,  he was filled with dismay .  Some have sup -  
posed that when the King spoke those hasty words ,   "  Have 
I no one here who will deliver rne from this man? "  he 
wished ,  and meant a Becket to be slain .  But few things are 
more unlikely  ;  for ,  besides that the King was not naturally 
cruel  ( though very passionate )  ,  he was wise ,  and must have 
known full well what any stupid man in his dominions must 
have known ,  namely ,  that such a murder would rouse the 
Pope and the whole Church against him .  

He sent respectful messengers to the Pope ,  to represent 
his innocence  ( except in having uttered the hasty words )   ;  
and he swore solemnly and publicly to his innocence ,  and 
contrived in time to make his peace .  As to the four guilty 
Knights ,  who fled into Yorkshire ,  and never again dared to 
show themselves at Court ,  the Pope excommunicated them  ;  
and they lived miserably for some time ,  shunned by all 
their countrymen .  At last ,  they went humbly to Jerusalem 
as a penance ,  and there died and were buried .  

It happened ,  fortunately for the pacifying of the Pope ,  that 
an opportunity arose very soon after the murder of a Becket ,  
for the King to declare his power in Ireland  - which was an 
acceptable undertaking to the Pope ,  as the Irish ,  who had 
been converted to Christianity by one Patricius  ( otherwise 
Saint Patrick )  long ago ,  before any Pope existed ,  considered 
that the Pope had nothing at all to do with them ,  or they 
with the Pope ,  and accordingly refused to pay him Peter  " s 
Pence ,  or that tax of a penny a house which I have elsewhere 
mentioned .  The Kings opportunity arose in this way .  

The Irish were ,  at that time ,  as barbarous a people as you 
can well imagine .  They were continually quarrelling and 
fighting ,  cutting one anothers throats ,  slicing one anothers 
noses ,  burning one anothers houses ,  carrying away one 
anothers wives ,  and committing all sorts of violence .  The 
country was divided into five kingdoms — Desmond ,  Thomond ,  
Connaught ,  Ulster ,  and Leinster — each governed by a 
separate King ,  of whom one claimed to be the chief of 
the rest .  Now ,  one of these Kings ,  named Dermond Mac 
Murrough  ( a wild kind of name ,  spelt in more than one wild 
kind of way )  ,  had carried off the wife of a friend of his ,  



HENRY THE SECOND IOI 

and concealed her on an island in a bog .  The friend resent -  
ing this  ( though it was quite the custom of the country )  ,  
complained to the chief King ,  and ,  with the chief Kings 
help ,  drove Dermond Mac Murrough out of his dominions .  
Dermond came over to England for revenge  ;  and offered to 
hold his realm as a vassal of King Henry ,  if King Henry 
would help him to regain it .  The King consented to these 
terms  ;  but only assisted him ,  then ,  with what were called 
Letters Patent ,  authorising any English subjects who were 
so disposed ,  to enter into his service ,  and aid his cause .  

There was ,  at Bristol ,  a certain Earl Kichard de Clare .  
called Strongbow  ;  of no very good character  ;  needy and 
desperate ,  and ready for anything that offered him a chance 
of improving his fortunes .  There were ,  in South  " Wales ,  
two other broken knights of the same good - for - nothing sort ,  
called Eobert Fitz - Stephen ,  and Maurice Fitz - Gerald .  
These three ,  each with a small band of followers ,  took up 
Dermond *s cause  ;  and it was agreed that if it proved suc -  
cessful ,  Strongbow should marry Dermonds daughter Eva ,  
and be declared his heir .  

The trained English followers of these knights were so 
superior in all the discipline of battle to the Irish ,  that they 
beat them against immense superiority of numbers .  In one 
fight ,  early in the war ,  they cut off three hundred heads ,  and 
laid them before Mac Murrough  ;  who turned them every 
one up with his hands ,  rejoicing ,  and ,  coming to one which 
was the head of a man whom he had much disliked ,  grasped 
it by the hair and ears ,  and tore off the nose and lips with 
his teeth .  You may judge from this ,  what kind of a gentle -  
man an Irish King in those times was .  The captives ,  all 
through this war ,  were horribly treated  ;  the victorious party 
making nothing of breaking their limbs ,  and casting them 
into the sea from the tops of high rocks .  It was in the 
midst of the miseries and cruelties attendant on the taking 
of Waterford ,  where the dead lay piled in the streets ,  and 
the filthy gutters ran with blood ,  that Strongbow married 
Eva .  An odious marriage - company those mounds of corpses 
must have made ,  I think ,  and one quite worthy of the young 
ladys father .  

He died ,  after Waterford and Dublin had been taken ,  and 
various successes achieved  ;  and Strongbow became King of 
Leinster .  Now came King Henrys opportunity .  To restrain 
the growing power of Strongbow ,  he himself repaired to 



102 A CHILDS HISTORY OF ENGLAND 

Dublin ,  as Strongbows Royal Master ,  and deprived him of 
his kingdom ,  but confirmed him in the enjoyment of great 
possessions .  The King ,  then ,  holding state in Dublin ,  re -  
ceived the homage of nearly all the Irish Kings and Chiefs ,  
and so came home again with a great addition to his reputa -  
tion as Lord of Ireland ,  and with a new claim on the favour 
of the Pope .  And now ,  their reconciliation was completed 
— more easily and mildly by the Pope ,  than the King might 
have expected ,  I think .  

At this period of his reign ,  when his troubles seemed so 
few and his prospects so bright ,  those domestic miseries began 
which gradually made the King the most unhappy of men ,  
reduced his great spirit ,  wore away his health ,  and broke 
his heart .  

He had four sons .  Henry ,  now aged eighteen — his secret 
crowning of whom had given such offence to Thomas a 
Becket  ;  Richard ,  aged sixteen  ;  Geoffrey ,  fifteen  ;  and 
John ,  his favourite ,  a young boy whom the courtiers named 
Lackland ,  because he had no inheritance ,  but to whom the 
King meant to give the Lordship of Ireland .  All these mis -  
guided boys ,  in their turn ,  were unnatural sons to him .  and 
unnatural brothers to each other .  Prince Henry ,  stimulated 
by the French King ,  and by his bad mother .  Queen Eleanor ,  
began the undutiful history .  

First ,  he demanded that his young wife .  Margaret ,  the 
French Kings daughter ,  should be crowned as well as he .  
His father ,  the King ,  consented ,  and it was done .  It was no 
sooner done ,  than he demanded to have a part of his fathers 
dominions ,  during his fathers life .  This being refused ,  he 
made off from his father in the night ,  with his bad heart 
full of bitterness ,  and took refuge at the French Kings 
Court .  Within a day or two ,  his brothers Richard and 
Geoffrey followed .  Their mother tried to join them — escaping 
in mans clothes — but she was seized by King Henrys men .  
and immured in prison ,  where she lay ,  deservedly ,  for sixteen 
years .  Everyday .  howevei \  some grasping English noblemen ,  
to whom the Kings protection of his people from their 
avarice and oppression had given offence ,  deserted him and 
joined the Princes .  Every day he heard some fresh intelli -  
gence of the Princes levying armies against him  ;  of Prince 
Henrys wearing a crown before his own ambassadors at the 
French Court ,  and being called the Junior King of England  ;  
of all the Princes swearing never to make peace with him ,  .  



HENRY THE SECOND 103 

their father ,  without the consent and approval of the Barons 
of France .  But ,  with his fortitude and energy unshaken ,  
King Henry met the shock of these disasters with a resolved 
and cheerful face .  He called upon all Royal fathers who 
had sons ,  to help him ,  for his cause was theirs  ;  he hired ,  
out of his riches ,  twenty thousand men to fight the false 
French King ,  who stirred his own blood against him  ;  and 
he carried on the war with such vigour ,  that Louis soon 
proposed a conference to treat for peace .  

The conference was held beneath an old wide - spreading 
green elm - tree ,  upon a plain in France .  It led to nothing .  
The war recommenced .  Prince Bichard began his fighting 
career ,  by leading an army against his father  ;  but his father 
beat him and his army back ;  and thousands of his men 
would have rued the day in which they fought in such a 
wicked cause ,  had not the King received news of an invasion 
of England by the Scots ,  and promptly come home through 
a great storm to repress it .  And whether he really began 
to fear that he suffered these troubles because a Becket had 
been murdered  ;  or whether he wished to rise in the favour 
of the Pope ,  who had now declared a Becket to be a saint ,  or 
in the favour of his own people ,  of whom many believed that 
even a Beckets senseless tomb could work miracles ,  I dont 
know : but the King no sooner landed in England than he 
went straight to Canterbury  ;  and when he came within sight 
of the distant Cathedral ,  he dismounted from his horse ,  took 
off his shoes ,  and walked with bare and bleeding feet to a 
Beckets grave .  There ,  he lay down on the ground ,  lamenting ,  
in the presence of many people  ;  and by - and - by he went into 
the Chapter House ,  and ,  removing his clothes from his back 
and shoulders ,  submitted himself to be beaten with knotted 
cords  ( not beaten very hard ,  I dare say though )  by eighty 
Priests ,  one after another .  It chanced that on the very day 
when the King made this curious exhibition of himself ,  a 
complete victory was obtained over the Scots  ;  which very 
much delighted the Priests ,  who said that it was won because 
of his great example of repentance .  For the Priests in 
general had found out ,  since a Beckets death ,  that they 
admired him of all things — though they had hated him very 
cordially when he was alive .  

The Earl of Flanders ,  who was at the head of the base 
conspiracy of the Kinds undutiful sons and their foreign 
friends ,  took the opportunity of the King being thus employed 



104 A CHILD S HISTORY OF ENGLAND 

at home ,  to lay siege to Rouen ,  the capital of Normandy .  
But the King ,  who was extraordinarily quick and active in all 
his movements ,  was at Eouen .  too .  before it was supposed 
possible that he could have left England  ;  and there he so 
defeated the said Earl of Flanders ,  that the conspirators 
proposed peace ,  and his bad sons Henry and Geoffrey sub -  
mitted .  Richard resisted for six weeks  ;  but ,  being beaten 
out of castle after castle ,  he at last submitted too ,  and his 
father forgave him .  

To forgive these unworthy princes was only to afford them 
breathing - time for new faithlessness .  They were so false ,  
disloyal ,  and dishonourable ,  that they were no more to be 
trusted than common thieves .  In the very next year ,  Prince 
Henry rebelled again ,  and was again forgiven .  In eight years 
more .  Prince Richard rebelled against his elder brother  ;  and 
Prince Geoffrey infamously said that the brothers could never 
agree well together ,  unless they were united against their 
father .  In the very next year after their reconciliation by 
the King ,  Prince Henry again rebelled against his father  ;  
and again submitted ,  swearing to be true  ;  and was again 
forgiven  ;  and again rebelled with Geoffrey .  

But the end of this perfidious Prince was come .  He fell 
sick at a French town  ;  and his conscience terribly reproaching 
him with his baseness ,  he sent messengers to the King his 
father ,  imploring him to come and see him ,  and to forgive 
him for the last time on his bed of death .  The generous 
King ,  who had a royal and forgiving mind towards his 
children always ,  would have gone  ;  but this Prince had been 
so unnatural ,  that the noblemen about the King suspected 
treachery ,  and represented to him that he could not safely 
trust his life with such a traitor ,  though his own eldest son .  
Therefore the King sent him a ring from off his finger as a 
token of forgiveness  ;  and when the Prince had kissed it .  with 
much grief and many tears ,  and had confessed to those around 
him how bad ,  and wicked ,  and undutiful a son he had been  ;  
he said to the attendant Priests :  "  0 ,  tie a rope about my 
body ,  and draw me out of bed ,  and lay me down upon a bed 
of ashes ,  that I may die with prayers to God in a repentant 
manner  !   "  And so he died ,  at twenty  - seven years old .  

Three years afterwards .  Prince Geoffrey ,  being unhorsed at 
a tournament ,  had his brains trampled out by a crowd of 
horses passing over him .  So .  there only remained Prince 
Richard ,  and Prince John — who had grown to be a young 



HENRY THE SECOND I05 

man now ,  and had solemnly sworn to be faithful to his father .  
Kichard soon rebelled again ,  encouraged by his friend the 
French King ,  Philip the Second  ( son of Louis ,  who was 
dead )   ;  and soon submitted and was again forgiven ,  swearing 
on the New Testament never to rebel again  ;  and in another 
year or so ,  rebelled again  ;  and ,  in the presence of his father ,  
knelt down on his knee before the King of France  ;  and did 
the French King homage : and declared that with his aid he 
would possess himself ,  by force ,  of all his fathers French 
dominions .  

And yet this Kichard called himself a soldier of Our 
Saviour  !  And yet this Kichard wore the Cross ,  which the 
Kings of France and England had both taken ,  in the previous 
year ,  at a brotherly meetingunderneath the old wide - spreading 
elm - tree on the plain ,  when they had sworn  ( like him )  to 
devote themselves to a new Crusade ,  for the love and honour 
of the Truth  !  

Sick at heart ,  wearied out by the falsehood of his sons ,  and 
almost ready to lie down and die ,  the unhappy King who had 
so long stood firm ,  began to fail .  But the Pope ,  to his 
honour ,  supported him  ;  and obliged the French King and 
Kichard ,  though successful in fight ,  to treat for peace .  Richard 
wanted to be crowned King of England ,  and pretended that 
he wanted to be married  ( which he really did not )  to the 
French Kings sister ,  his promised wife ,  whom King Henry 
detained in England .  King Henry wanted ,  on the other 
hand ,  that the French Kings sister should be married to his 
favourite son ,  John : the only one of his sons  ( he said )  who 
had never rebelled against him .  At last King Henry ,  deserted 
by his nobles one by one ,  distressed ,  exhausted ,  broken -  
hearted ,  consented to establish peace .  

One final heavy sorrow was reserved for him ,  even yet .  
 " When they brought him the proposed treaty of peace ,  in 
writing ,  as he lay very ill in bed ,  they brought him also the 
list of the deserters from their allegiance ,  whom he was 
required to pardon .  The first name upon this list was John ,  
his favourite son ,  in whom he had trusted to the last .  

 "  O John  !  child of my heart  !   "  exclaimed the King ,  in a 
great agony of mind .   "  John ,  whom I have loved the best  !  
O John ,  for whom I have contended through these many 
troubles  !  Have you betrayed me too  !   "  And then he lay 
down with a heavy groan ,  and said ,  4i Now let the world go 
as it will .  I care for nothing more  !   "  
1 .  R3 



Io6 A CHILDS HISTORY OF ENGLAND 

After a time ,  he told his attendants to take him to the 
French town of Chinon — a town he had been fond of ,  during 
many years .  But he was fond of no place now  ;  it was too 
true that he could care for nothing more upon this earth .  
He wildly cursed the hour when he was born ,  and cursed 
the children whom he left behind him  ;  and expired .  

As ,  one hundred years before ,  the servile followers of the 
Court had abandoned the Conqueror in the hour of his death ,  
so they now abandoned his descendant .  The very body was 
stripped ,  in the plunder of the Eoyal chamber  ;  and it was 
not easy to find the means of carrying it for burial to the 
abbey church of Fontevraud .  

Richard was said in after years ,  by way of flattery ,  to 
have the heart of a Lion .  It would have been far better ,  I 
think ,  to have had the heart of a Man .  His heart ,  whatever 
it was ,  had cause to beat remorsefully within his breast ,  when 
he came — as he did — into the solemn abbey ,  and looked on 
his dead fathers uncovered face .  His heart ,  whatever it was ,  
had been a black and perjured heart ,  in all its dealings with 
the deceased King ,  and more deficient in a single touch of 
tenderness than any wild beasts in the forest .  

There is a pretty story told of this reign ,  called the story 
of Fair Rosamond .  It relates how the King doted on Fair 
Rosamond ,  who was the loveliest girl in all the world  ;  and 
how he had a beautiful Bower built for her in a Park at 
Woodstock  ;  and how it was erected in a labyrinth ,  and could 
only be found by a clue of silk .  How the bad Queen 
Eleanor ,  becoming jealous of Fair Rosamond ,  found out the 
secret of the clue ,  and one day ,  appeared before her ,  with a 
dagger and cup of poison ,  and left her to the choice 
between those deaths .  How Fair Rosamond ,  after shedding 
many piteous tears and offering many useless prayers to the 
cruel Queen ,  took the poison ,  and fell dead in the midst of 
the beautiful bower ,  while the unconscious birds sang gaily 
all around her .  

Now ,  there tvas a fair Rosamond ,  and she was  ( I dare say )  
the loveliest girl in all the world ,  and the King was certainly 
very fond of her ,  and the bad Queen Eleanor was certainly 
made jealous .  But I am afraid — I say afraid ,  because I like 
the story so much — that there was no bower ,  no labyrinth ,  
no silken clue ,  no dagger ,  no poison .  I am afraid fair 
Rosamond retired to a nunnery near Oxford ,  and died there ,  
peaceably  ;  her sister - nuns hanging a silken drapery over her 



HENRY THE SECOND 107 

tomb ,  and often dressing it with flowers ,  in remembrance of 
the youth and beauty that had enchanted the King when he 
too was young ,  and when his life lay fair before him .  

It was dark and ended now  ;  faded and gone .  Henry 
Plantagenet lay quiet in the abbey church of Fontevraud ,  in 
the fifty - seventh year of his age — never to be completed — 
after governing England well ,  for nearly thirty - five years .  



CHAPTER XIII 

ENGLAND UNDER RICHARD THE FIRST ,  CALLED THE 

LION - HEART 

In the year of our Lord one thousand one hundred and 
eighty - nine ,  Richard of the Lion Heart succeeded to the 
throne of King Henry the Second ,  whose paternal heart he 
had done so much to break .  He had been ,  as we have seen ,  
a rebel from his boyhood  ;  but ,  the moment he became a king 
against whom others might rebel ,  he found out that rebellion 
was a great wickedness .  In the heat of this pious discovery ,  
he punished all the leading people who had befriended him 
against his father .  He could scarcely have done anything 
that would have been a better instance of his real nature ,  or 
a better warning to fawners and parasites not to trust in 
lion - hearted princes .  

He likewise put his late fathers treasurer in chains ,  and 
locked him up in a dungeon from which he was not set free 
until he had relinquished ,  not only all the Crown treasure ,  
but all his own money too .  So ,  Richard certainly got the 
Lions share of the wealth of this wretched treasurer ,  whether 
he had a Lions heart or not .  

He was crowned King of England ,  with great pomp ,  at 
Westminster : walking to the Cathedral under a silken canopy 
stretched on the tops of four lances ,  each carried by a great 
lord .  On the day of his coronation ,  a dreadful murdering of 
the Jews took place ,  which seems to have given great delight 
to numbers of savage persons calling themselves Christians .  
The King had issued a proclamation forbidding the Jews 
 ( who were generally hated ,  though they were the most useful 
merchants in England )  to appear at the ceremony  ;  but as 
they had assembled in London from all parts ,  bringing 
presents to show their respect for the new Sovereign ,  some 
of them ventured down to Westminster Hall with their gifts ;  
which were very readily accepted .  It is supposed ,  now ,  that 
some noisy fellow in the crowd ,  pretending to be a very 



RICHARD THE FIRST T09 

delicate Christian ,  set up a howl at this ,  and struck a Jew 
who was trying to get in at the Hall door with his present .  
A riot arose .  The Jews who had got into the Hall ,  were 
driven forth  ;  and some of the rabble cried out that the new 
King had commanded the unbelieving race to be put to 
death .  Thereupon the crowd rushed through the narrow 
streets of the city ,  slaughtering all the Jews they met  ;  and 
when they could find no more out of doors  ( on account of 
their having fled to their houses ,  and fastened themselves in )  ,  
they ran madly about ,  breaking open all the houses where 
the Jews lived ,  rushing in and stabbing or spearing them ,  
sometimes even flinging old people and children out of 
window into blazing fires they had lighted up below .  This 
great cruelty lasted four - and - twenty hours ,  and only three 
men were punished for it .  Even they forfeited their lives 
not for murdering and robbing the Jews ,  but for burning the 
houses of some Christians .  

King Kichard ,  who was a strong restless burly man ,  with 
one idea always in his head ,  and that the very troublesome 
idea of breaking the heads of other men ,  was mightily 
impatient to go on a Crusade to the Holy Land ,  with a great 
army .  As great armies could not be raised to go ,  even to 
the Holy Land ,  without a great deal of money ,  he sold the 
Crown domains ,  and even the high offices of State  ;  recklessly 
appointing noblemen to rule over his English subjects ,  not 
because they were fit to govern ,  but because they could pay 
high for the privilege .  In this way ,  and by selling pardons 
at a dear rate ,  and by varieties of avarice and oppression ,  
he scraped together a large treasure .  He then appointed 
two Bishops to take care of his kingdom in his absence ,  and 
gave great powers and possessions to his brother John ,  to 
secure his friendship .  John would rather have been made 
Kegent of England  ;  but he was a sly man ,  and friendly to 
the expedition  ;  saying to himself ,  no doubt ,   "  The more 
fighting ,  the more chance of my brother being killed  ;  and 
when he is killed ,  then I become King John  !  * 

Before the newly levied army departed from England ,  the 
recruits and the general populace distinguished themselves 
by astonishing cruelties on the unfortunate Jews: whom ,  in 
many large towns ,  they murdered by hundreds in the most 
horrible manner .  

At York ,  a large body of Jews took refuge in the Castle ,  
in the absence of its Governor ,  after the wives and children 



I TO A CHILDS HISTORY OF ENGLAND 

of many of them had been slain before their eyes .  Presently 
came the Governor ,  and demanded admission .   " How can 
we give it thee ,  O Governor  !   "  said the Jews upon the walls ,  
 " when ,  if we open the gate by so much as the width of 
a foot ,  the roaring crowd behind thee will press in and 
kill us? "  

Upon this ,  the unjust Governor became angry ,  and told 
the people that he approved of their killing those Jews  ;  
and a mischievous maniac of a friar ,  dressed all in white ,  put 
himself at the head of the assault ,  and they assaulted the 
Castle for three days .  

Then said Jocen ,  the head - Jew  ( who was a Kabbi or 
Priest )  ,  to the rest ,   "  Brethren ,  there is no hope for us with 
the Christians who are hammering at the gates and Avails ,  
and who must soon break in .  As we and our wives and 
children must die ,  either by Christian hands ,  or by our own ,  
let it be by our own .  Let us destroy by fire what jewels 
and other treasure we have here ,  then fire the castle ,  and 
then perish  !   "  

A few could not resolve to do this ,  but the greater part 
complied .  They made a blazing heap of all their valuables ,  
and ,  when those were consumed ,  set the castle in flames .  
 " While the flames roared and crackled around them ,  and 
shooting up into the sky .  turned it blood - red ,  Jocen cut 
the throat of his beloved wife ,  and stabbed himself .  All the 
others who had wives or children ,  did the like dreadful deed .  
When the populace broke in ,  they found  ( except the trembling 
few ,  cowering in corners ,  whom they soon killed )  only heaps 
of greasy cinders ,  with here and there something like part of 
the blackened trunk of a burnt tree ,  but which had lately 
been a human creature ,  formed by the beneficent hand of the 
Creator as they were .  

After this bad beginning .  Richard and his troops went on ,  
in no very good manner ,  with the Holy Crusade .  It was 
undertaken jointly by the King of England and his old 
friend Philip of France .  They commenced the business by 
reviewing their forces ,  to the number of one hundred thousand 
men .  Afterwards ,  they severally embarked their troops for 
Messina ,  in Sicily ,  which was appointed as the next place of 
meeting .  

King Richards sister had married "  the King of this place ,  
but he was dead : and his uncle Tancred had usurped the 
crown ,  cast the Royal Widow into prison ,  and possessed 



RICHARD THE FIRST III 

himself of her estates .  Eichard fiercely demanded his sisters 
release ,  the restoration of her lands ,  and  ( according to the 
Royal custom of the Island )  that she should have a golden 
chair ,  a golden table ,  four - and - twenty silver cups ,  and four -  
and - twenty silver dishes .  As he was too powerful to be 
successfully resisted ,  Tancred yielded to his demands  ;  and 
then the French King grew jealous ,  and complained that the 
English King wanted to be absolute in the Island of Messina 
and everywhere else .  Richard ,  however ,  cared little or nothing 
for this complaint  ;  and in consideration of a present of 
twenty thousand pieces of gold ,  promised his pretty little 
nephew Arthur ,  then a child of two years old ,  in marriage 
to Tancreds daughter .  We shall hear again of pretty little 
Arthur by - and - by .  

This Sicilian affair arranged without anybodys brains 
being knocked out  ( which must have rather disappointed 
him )  ,  King Richard took his sister away ,  and also a fair lady 
named Berengaria ,  with whom he had fallen in love in 
France ,  and whom his mother ,  Queen Eleanor  ( so long in 
prison ,  you remember ,  but released by Richard on his coming 
to the Throne )  ,  had brought out there to be his wife  ;  and 
sailed with them for Cyprus .  

He soon had the pleasure of fighting the King of the 
Island of Cyprus ,  for allowing his subjects to pillage some of 
the English troops who were shipwrecked on the shore  ;  and 
easily conquering this poor monarch ,  he seized his only 
daughter ,  to be a companion to the lady Berengaria ,  and put 
the King himself into silver fetters .  He then sailed away 
again with his mother ,  sister ,  wife ,  and the captive princess  ;  
and soon arrived before the town of Acre ,  which the French 
King with his fleet was besieging from the sea .  But the 
French King was in no triumphant condition ,  for his army 
had been thinned by the swords of the Saracens ,  and 
wasted by the plague  ;  and Saladin ,  the brave Sultan of 
the Turks ,  at the head of a numerous army ,  was at that 
time gallantly defending the place from the hills that rise 
above it .  

Wherever the united army of Crusaders went ,  they agreed 
in few points except in gaming ,  drinking ,  and quarrelling ,  in 
a most unholy manner  ;  in debauching the people among 
whom they tarried ,  whether they were friends or foes  ;  and 
in carrying disturbance and ruin into quiet places .  The 
French King was jealous of the English King ,  and the 



TI2 A CHILD S HISTORY OF ENGLAND 

English King was jealous of the French King ,  and the dis -  
orderly and violent soldiers of the two nations were jealous 
of one another  ;  consequently ,  the two Kings could not at 
first agree ,  even upon a joint assault on Acre  ;  but when 
they did make up their quarrel for that purpose ,  the Saracens 
promised to yield the town ,  to give up to the Christians the 
wood of the Holy Cross ,  to set at liberty all their Christian 
captives ,  and to pay two hundred thousand pieces of gold .  
All this was to be done within forty days  ;  but .  not being 
done .  King Eichard ordered some three thousand Saracen 
prisoners to be brought out in the front of his camp ,  
and there ,  in full view of their own countrymen ,  to be 
butchered .  

The French King had no part in this crime  ;  for he was 
by that time travelling homeward with the greater part of 
his men  ;  being offended by the overbearing conduct of the 
English King  ;  being anxious to look after his own dominions  ;  
and being ill .  besides ,  from the unwholesome air of that hot 
and sandy countiy .  King Eichard carried on the war with -  
out him : and remained in the East ,  meeting with a variety 
of adventures ,  nearly a year and a half .  Every night when 
his army was on the march ,  and came to a halt ,  the heralds 
cried out three times ,  to remind all the soldiers of the cause 
in which they were engaged .   "  Save the Holy Sepulchre  !   "  
and then all the soldiers knelt and said  "  Amen  !   "  Marching 
or encamping ,  the army had continually to strive with the 
hot air of the glaring desert ,  or with the Saracen soldiers 
animated and directed by the brave Saladin ,  or with both 
together .  Sickness and death ,  battle and wounds ,  were 
always among them  ;  but through every difficulty King 
Eichard fought like a giant ,  and worked like a common 
labourer .  Long and long after he was quiet in his grave ,  his 
terrible battle - axe .  with twenty English pounds of English 
steel in its mighty head ,  was a legend among the Saracens  ;  
and when all the Saracen and Christian hosts had been 
dust for many a year ,  if a Saracen horse started at any 
object by the wayside ,  his rider would exclaim ,   "  What 
dost thou fear .  Fool? Dost thou think King Eichard is 
behind it ?  "  

No one admired this Kings renown for bravery more than 
Saladin himself ,  who was a generous and gallant enemy .  
When Eichard lay ill of a fever .  Saladin sent him fresh fruits 
from Damascus ,  and snow from the mountain - tops .  Courtly 



RICHARD THE FIRST 113 

messages and compliments were frequently exchanged 
between them — and then King Kichard would mount his 
horse and kill as many Saracens as he could  ;  and Saladin 
would mount his ,  and kill as many Christians as he could .  
In this way King Kichard fought to his hearts content at 
Arsoof and at Jaffa ;  and finding himself with nothing 
exciting to do at Ascalon ,  except to rebuild ,  for his own 
defence ,  some fortifications there which the Saracens had 
destroyed ,  he kicked his ally the Duke of Austria ,  for being 
too proud to work at them .  

The army at last came within sight of the Holy City of 
Jerusalem  ;  but ,  being then a mere nest of jealousy ,  and 
quarrelling and fighting ,  soon retired ,  and agreed with the 
Saracens upon a truce for three years ,  three months ,  three 
days ,  and three hours .  Then ,  the English Christians ,  pro -  
tected by the noble Saladin from Saracen revenge ,  visited 
Our Saviours tomb  ;  and then King Richard embarked 
with a small force at Acre to return home .  

But he was shipwrecked in the Adriatic Sea ,  and was fain 
to pass through Germany ,  under an assumed name .  Now ,  
there were many people in Germany who had served in the 
Holy Land under that proud Duke of Austria who had 
been kicked  ;  and some of them ,  easily recognising a man 
so remarkable as King Richard ,  carried their intelligence to 
the kicked Duke ,  who straightway took him prisoner at a 
little inn near Vienna .  

The Dukes master the Emperor of Germany ,  and the 
King of France ,  were equally delighted to have so trouble -  
some a monarch in safe keeping .  Friendships which are 
founded on a partnership in doing wrong ,  are never true  ;  
and the King of France was now quite as heartily King 
Richards foe ,  as he had ever been his friend in his unnatural 
conduct to his father .  He monstrously pretended that King 
Richard had designed to poison him in the East : he charged 
him with having murdered ,  there ,  a man whom he had in 
truth befriended  ;  he bribed the Emperor of Germany to 
keep him close prisoner  ;  and ,  finally ,  through the plotting 
of these two princes ,  Richard was brought before the Ger -  
man legislature ,  charged with the foregoing crimes ,  and 
many others .  But he defended himself so well ,  that many 
of the assembly were moved to tears by his eloquence and 
earnestness .  It was decided that he should be treated ,  
during the rest of his captivity ,  in a manner more becoming 



114 A CHILD S HISTORY OF ENGLAND 

his dignity than he had been ,  and that he should be set free 
on the payment of a heavy ransom .  This ransom the 
English people willingly raised .  When Queen Eleanor 
took it over to Germany ,  it was at first evaded and refused .  
But she appealed to the honour of all the princes of the 
German Empire in behalf of her son ,  and appealed so well 
that it was accepted ,  and the King released .  Thereupon ,  the 
King of France wrote to Prince John —  "  Take care of thyself .  
The devil is unchained  !   "  

Prince John had reason to fear his brother ,  for he had 
been a traitor to him in his captivity .  He had secretly 
joined the French King  ;  had vowed to the English nobles 
and people that his brother was dead  ;  and had vainly tried 
to seize the crown .  He was now in France ,  at a place called 
Evreux .  Being the meanest and basest of men ,  he contrived 
a mean and base expedient for making himself acceptable to 
his brother .  He invited the French officers of the garrison 
in that town to dinner ,  murdered them all ,  and then took 
the fortress .  With this recommendation to the good will of 
a lion - hearted monarch ,  he hastened to King Richard ,  fell 
on his knees before him ,  and obtained the intercession of 
Queen Eleanor .   " I forgive him ,  "  said the King ,  and I 
hope I may forget the injury he has done me ,  as easily as 
I know he will forget my pardon .  "  

While King Richard was in Sicily ,  there had been trouble 
in his dominions at home : one of the bishops whom he had 
left in charge thereof ,  arresting the other  ;  and making ,  in 
his pride and ambition ,  as great a show as if he were King 
himself .  But the King hearing of it at Messina ,  and 
appointing a new Regency ,  this Longchamp  ( for that was 
his name )  had fled to France in a womans dress ,  and had 
there been encouraged and supported by the French King .  
With all these causes of offence against Philip in his mind .  
King Richard had no sooner been welcomed home by his 
enthusiastic subjects with great display and splendour ,  and 
had no sooner been crowned afresh at Winchester ,  than he 
resolved to show the French King that the Devil was un -  
chained indeed ,  and made war against him with great fury .  

There was fresh trouble at home about this time ,  arising 
out of the discontents of the poor people ,  who complained 
that they were far more heavily taxed than the rich ,  and 
who found a spirited champion in William Fitz - Osbert ,  
called Longbeard .  He became the leader of a secret society ,  



RICHARD THE FIRST II 5 

comprising fifty thousand men  ;  he was seized by surprise  ;  
he stabbed the citizen who first laid hands upon him  ;  and 
retreated ,  bravely fighting ,  to a church ,  which he maintained 
four days ,  until he was dislodged by fire ,  and run through 
the body as he came out .  He was not killed ,  though  ;  for 
he was dragged ,  half dead ,  at the tail of a horse to Smith -  
field ,  and there hanged .  Death was long a favourite remedy 
for silencing the peoples advocates  ;  but as we go on with 
this history ,  I fancy we shall find them difficult to make an 
end of ,  for all that .  

The French war ,  delayed occasionally by a truce ,  was still 
in progress when a certain Lord named Vidomar ,  Viscount 
of Limoges ,  chanced to find in his ground a treasure of 
ancient coins .  As the Kings vassal ,  he sent the King half 
of it  ;  but the King claimed the whole .  The lord refused to 
yield the whole .  The King besieged the lord in his castle ,  
swore that he would take the castle by storm ,  and hang 
every man of its defenders on the battlements .  

There was a strange old song in that part of the country ,  
to the effect that in Limoges an arrow would be made by 
which King Kichard would die .  It may be that Bertrand 
de Gourdon ,  a young man who was one of the defenders of 
the castle ,  had often sung it or heard it sung of a winter 
night ,  and remembered it when he saw ,  from his post upon 
the ramparts ,  the King attended only by his chief officer 
riding below the walls surveying the place .  He drew an 
arrow to the head ,  took steady aim ,  said between his teeth ,  
 "  Now I pray God speed thee well ,  arrow  !   "  discharged it ,  
and struck the King in the left shoulder .  

Although the wound was not at first considered dangerous ,  
it was severe enough to cause the King to retire to his tent ,  
and direct the assault to be made without him .  The castle 
was taken  ;  and every man of its defenders was hanged ,  as 
the King had sworn all should be ,  except Bertrand de 
Gourdon ,  who was reserved until the royal pleasure respect -  
ing him should be known .  

By that time unskilful treatment had made the wound 
mortal ,  and the King knew that he was dying .  He directed 
Bertrand to be brought into his tent .  The young man was 
brought there ,  heavily chained .  King Richard looked at 
him steadily .  He looked ,  as steadily ,  at the King .  

 " Knave !  "  said King Richard .  What have I done to 
thee that thou shouldest take my life ?  "  



Il6 A CHILDS HISTORY OF ENGLAND 

 " What hast thou done to me?  "  replied the young man .  
 " With thine own hands thou hast killed my father and my 
two brothers .  Myself thou wouldest have hanged .  Let me 
die now ,  by any torture that thou wilt .  My comfort is ,  
that no torture can save thee .  Thou too must die  ;  and 
through me ,  the world is quit of thee  !   "  

Again the King looked at the young man steadily .  Again 
the young man looked steadily at him .  Perhaps some 
remembrance of his generous enemy Saladin .  who was not 
a Christian ,  came into the mind of the dying King .  

 " Youth  !   "  he said ,   "  I forgive thee .  Go unhurt  !   "  

Then ,  turning to the chief officer who had been riding in 
his company when he received the wound ,  King Eichard 
said : 

 " Take off his chains ,  give him a hundred shillings ,  and 
let him depart .  "  

He sunk down on his couch ,  and a dark mist seemed in 
his weakened eyes to fill the tent wherein he had so often 
rested ,  and he died .  His age was forty - two  ;  he had reigned 
ten years .  His last command was not obeyed  ;  for the chief 
officer flayed Bertrand de Gourdon alive ,  and hanged him .  

There is an old tune yet known — a sorrowful air will 
sometimes outlive many generations of strong men ,  and 
even last longer than battle - axes with twenty pounds of steel 
in the head — by which this King is said to have been dis -  
covered in his captivity .  Blondel ,  a favourite Minstrel of 
King Kichard ,  as the story relates ,  faithfully seeking his 
Eoyal master ,  went singing it outside the gloomy walls of 
many foreign fortresses and prisons  ;  until at last he heard 
it echoed from within a dungeon ,  and knew the voice ,  and 
cried out in ecstasy ,   "  O Eichard ,  O my King  !   "  You may 
believe it ,  if you like  ;  it would be easy to believe worse 
things .  Eichard was himself a Minstrel and a Poet .  If he 
had not been a Prince too ,  he might have been a better man 
perhaps ,  and might have gone out of the world with less 
bloodshed and waste of life to answer for .  



CHAPTER XIV 

ENGLAND UNDER KING JOHN ,  CALLED LACKLAND 

At two - and - thirty years of age ,  John became King of 
England .  His pretty little nephew Arthur had the best 
claim to the throne  ;  but John seized the treasure ,  and 
made fine promises to the nobility ,  and got himself crowned 
at Westminster within a few weeks after his brother 
Richards death .  I doubt whether the crown could pos -  
sibly have been put upon the head of a meaner coward ,  or 
a more detestable villain ,  if England had been searched 
from end to end to find him out .  

The French King ,  Philip ,  refused to acknowledge the 
right of John to his new dignity ,  and declared in favour 
of Arthur .  You must not suppose that he had any gener -  
osity of feeling for the fatherless boy  ;  it merely suited his 
ambitious schemes to oppose the King of England .  So John 
and the French King went to war about Arthur .  

He was a handsome boy ,  at that time only twelve years 
old .  He was not born when his father ,  Geoffrey ,  had his 
brains trampled out at the tournament  ;  and ,  besides the 
misfortune of never having known a fathers guidance and 
protection ,  he had the additional misfortune to have a 
foolish mother  ( Constance by name )  ,  lately married to 
her third husband .  She took Arthur ,  upon Johns acces -  
sion ,  to the French King ,  who pretended to be very much 
his friend ,  and who made him a Knight ,  and promised him 
his daughter in marriage  ;  but ,  who cared so little about 
him in reality ,  that finding it his interest to make peace 
with King John for a time ,  he did so without the least con -  
sideration for the poor little Prince ,  and heartlessly sacrificed 
all his interests .  

Young Arthur ,  for two years afterwards ,  lived quietly  ;  
and in the course of that time his mother died .  But ,  the 
French King then finding it his interest to quarrel with King 



I l8 A CHILDS HISTORY OF ENGLAND 

John again ,  again made Arthur his pretence ,  and invited the 
orphan boy to court .   " You know your rights ,  Prince ,  "  said 
the French King ,   "  and you would like to be a King .  Is it 
not so? "   " Truly ,  "  said Prince Arthur ,   " I should greatly 
like to be a King  !   "   "  Then ,  "  said Philip ,   "  you shall have 
two hundred gentlemen who are Knights of mine ,  and with 
them you shall go to win back the provinces belonging to 
you ,  of which your uncle ,  the usurping King of England ,  has 
taken possession .  I myself ,  meanwhile ,  will head a force 
against him in Normandy .  "  Poor Arthur was so flattered 
and so grateful that he signed a treaty with the crafty French 
King ,  agreeing to consider him his superior Lord ,  and that 
the French King should keep for himself whatever he could 
take from King John .  

Now ,  King John was so bad in all ways ,  and King Philip 
was so perfidious ,  that Arthur ,  between the two ,  might as 
well have been a lamb between a fox and a wolf .  But ,  being 
so young ,  he was ardent and flushed with hope  ;  and ,  when 
the people of Brittany  ( which was his inheritance )  sent him 
five hundred more knights and five thousand foot soldiers ,  he 
believed his fortune was made .  The people of Brittany had 
been fond of him from his birth ,  and had requested that he 
might be called Arthur ,  in remembrance of that dimly - famous 
English Arthur ,  of whom I told you early in this book ,  whom 
they believed to have been the brave friend and companion 
of an old King of their own .  They had tales among them 
about a prophet called Merlin  ( of the same old time )  ,  who 
had foretold that their own King should be restored to them 
after hundreds of years  ;  and they believed that the prophecy 
would be fulfilled in Arthur  ;  that the time would come when 
he would rule them with a crown of Brittany upon his head  ;  
and when neither King of France nor King of England would 
have any power over them .  When Arthur found himself 
riding in a glittering suit of armour on a richly caparisoned 
horse ,  at the head of his train of knights and soldiers ,  he 
began to believe this too ,  and to consider old Merlin a very 
superior prophet .  

He did not know — how could he ,  being so innocent and 
inexperienced ? — that his little army was a mere nothing 
against the power of the King of England .  The French 
King knew it  ;  but the poor boys fate was little to him ,  so 
that the King of England was worried and distressed .  There -  
fore ,  King Philip went his way into Normandy ,  and Prince 



JOHN • 119 

Arthur went his way towards Mirebeau ,  a French town near 
Poictiers ,  both very well pleased .  

Prince Arthur went to attack the town of Mirebeau ,  because 
his grandmother Eleanor ,  who has so often made her appear -  
ance in this history  ( and who had always been his mothers 
enemy )  ,  was living there ,  and because his Knights said ,  
 " Prince ,  if you can take her prisoner ,  you will be able to 
bring the King your uncle to terms  !   "  But she was not to 
be easily taken .  She was old enough by this time — eighty — 
but she was as full of stratagem as she was full of years 
and wickedness .  Keceiving intelligence of young Arthurs 
approach ,  she shut herself up in a high tower ,  and encouraged 
her soldiers to defend it like men .  Prince Arthur with his 
little army besieged the high tower .  King John ,  hearing 
how matters stood ,  came up to the rescue ,  with Ms army .  
So here was a strange family - party  !  The boy - Prince besieging 
his grandmother ,  and his uncle besieging him  !  

This position of affairs did not last long .  One summer 
night King John ,  by treachery ,  got his men into the town ,  
surprised Prince Arthurs force ,  took two hundred of his 
knights ,  and seized the Prince himself in his bed .  The 
Knights were put in heavy irons ,  and driven away in open 
carts drawn by bullocks ,  to various dungeons where they 
were most inhumanly treated ,  and where some of them were 
starved to death .  Prince Arthur was sent to the castle of 
Falaise .  

One day ,  while he was in prison at that castle ,  mournfully 
thinking it strange that one so young should be in so much 
trouble ,  and looking out of the small window in the deep 
dark wall ,  at the summer sky and the birds ,  the door was 
softly opened ,  and he saw his uncle the King standing in 
the shadow of the archway ,  looking veiy grim .  

 " Arthur ,  "  said the King ,  with his wicked eyes more on 
the stone floor than on his nephew ,   "  will you not trust to 
the gentleness ,  the friendship ,  and the truthfulness of your 
loving uncle ?  "  

 "  I will tell my loving uncle that ,  "  replied the boy ,   "  when 
he does me right .  Let him restore to me my kingdom of 
England ,  and then come to me and ask the question .  "  

The King looked at him and went out .   " Keep that boy 
close prisoner ,  "  said he to the warden of the castle .  

Then ,  the King took secret counsel with the worst of his 
nobles how the Prince was to be got rid of .  Some said ,  



120 A CHILDS HISTORY OF ENGLAND 

 " Put out his eyes and keep him in prison ,  as Eobert of 
Normandy was kept .  "  Others said ,   " Have him stabbed .  "  
Others ,   "  Have him hanged .  "  Others ,   "  Have him poisoned .  "  

King John ,  feeling that in any case ,  whatever was done 
afterwards ,  it would be a satisfaction to his mind to have 
those handsome eyes burnt out that had looked at him so 
proudly while his own royal eyes were blinking at the stone 
floor ,  sent certain ruffians to Falaise to blind the boy with 
red - hot irons .  But Arthur so pathetically entreated them ,  
and shed such piteous tears ,  and so appealed to Hubert de 
Bourg  ( or Burgh )  ,  the warden of the castle ,  who had a 
love for him ,  and was an honourable tender man ,  that Hubert 
could not bear it .  To his eternal honour he prevented the 
torture from being performed ,  and ,  at his own risk ,  sent the 
savages away .  

The chafed and disappointed King bethought himself of 
the stabbing suggestion next ,  and ,  with his shuffling manner 
and his cruel face ,  proposed it to one William de Bray .   " I 
am a gentleman and not an executioner ,  "  said William de 
Bray ,  and left the presence with disdain .  

But it was not difficult for a King to hire a murderer in 
those days .  King John found one for his money ,  and sent 
him down to the castle of Falaise .   "  On what errand dost 
thou come? "  said Hubert to this fellow .   " To despatch 
young Arthur ,  "  he returned .   " Go back to him who sent 
thee ,  "  answered Hubert ,   " and say that I will do it  !   "  

King John very well knowing that Hubert would never 
do it ,  but that he courageously sent this reply to save the 
Prince or gain time ,  despatched messengers to convey the 
young prisoner to the castle of Rouen .  

Arthur was soon forced from the good Hubert — of whom 
he had never stood in greater need than then — carried away 
by night ,  and lodged in his new prison : where ,  through his 
grated window ,  he could hear the deep waters of the river 
Seine ,  rippling against the stone wall below .  

One dark night ,  as he lay sleeping ,  dreaming perhaps of 
rescue by those unfortunate gentlemen who were obscurely 
suffering and dying in his cause ,  he was roused ,  and bidden 
by his jailer to come down the staircase to the foot of the 
tower .  He hurriedly dressed himself and obeyed .  When 
they came to the bottom of the winding stairs ,  and the night 
air from the river blew upon their faces ,  the jailer trod upon 
his torch and put it out .  Then ,  Arthur ,  in the darkness ,  



JOHN 121 

was hurriedly drawn into a solitary boat .  And in that boat ,  
he found his uncle and one other man .  

He knelt to them ,  and prayed them not to murder him .  
Deaf to his entreaties ,  they stabbed him and sunk his body 
in the river with heavy stones .  When the spring - morning 
broke ,  the tower - door was closed ,  the boat was gone ,  the 
river sparkled on its wfcy ,  and never more was any trace of 
the poor boy beheld by mortal eyes .  

The news of this atrocious murder being spread in England ,  
awakened a hatred of the King  ( already odious for his many 
vices ,  and for his having stolen away and married a noble 
lady while his own wife was living )  that never slept again 
through his whole reign .  In Brittany ,  the indignation was 
intense .  Arthurs own sister Eleanor was in the power of 
John and shut up in a convent at Bristol ,  but his half - sister 
Alice was in Brittany .  The people chose her ,  and the mur -  
dered princes father - in - law ,  the last husband of Constance ,  
to represent them  ;  and carried their fiery complaints to King 
Philip .  King Philip summoned King John  ( as the holder of 
territory in France )  to come before him and defend himself .  
King John refusing to appear ,  King Philip declared him false ,  
perjured ,  and guilty  ;  and again made war .  In a little time ,  
by conquering the greater part of his French territory ,  King 
Philip deprived him of one - third of his dominions .  And ,  
through all the fighting that took place ,  King John was 
always found ,  either to be eating and drinking ,  like a 
gluttonous fool ,  when the danger was at a distance ,  or to be 
running away ,  like a beaten cur ,  when it was near .  

You might suppose that when he was losing his dominions 
at this rate ,  and when his own nobles cared so little for him 
or his cause that they plainly refused to follow his banner 
out of England ,  he had enemies enough .  But he made 
another enemy of the Pope ,  which he did in this way .  

The Archbishop of Canterbury dying ,  and the junior 
monks of that place wishing to get the start of the senior 
monks in the appointment of his successor ,  met together at 
midnight ,  secretly elected a certain Reginald ,  and sent him 
off to Rome to get the Popes approval .  The senior monks 
and the King soon finding this out ,  and being very angry 
about it ,  the junior monks gave way ,  and all the monks 
together elected the Bishop of Norwich ,  who was the Kings 
favourite .  The Pope ,  hearing the whole story ,  declared that 
neither election would do for him ,  and that he elected Stephen 



122 A CHILDS HISTORY OF ENGLAND 

Langton .  The monks submitting to the Pope ,  the King 
turned them all out bodily ,  and banished them as traitors .  
The Pope sent three bishops to the King ,  to threaten him 
with an Interdict .  The King told the bishops that if any 
Interdict were laid upon his kingdom ,  he would tear out the 
eyes and cut off the noses of all the monks he could lay 
hold of ,  and send them over to Kome in that underrated 
state as a present for their master .  The bishops ,  neverthe -  
less ,  soon published the Interdict ,  and fled .  

After it had lasted a year ,  the Pope proceeded to his next 
step  ;  which was Excommunication .  King John was declared 
excommunicated ,  with all the usual ceremonies .  The King 
was so incensed at this ,  and was made so desperate by the 
disaffection of his Barons and the hatred of his people ,  that 
it is said he even privately sent ambassadors to the Turks in 
Spain ,  offering to renounce his religion and hold his kingdom 
of them if they would help him .  It is related that the 
ambassadors were admitted to the presence of the Turkish 
Emir through long lines of Moorish guards ,  and that they 
found the Emir with his eyes seriously fixed on the pages of 
a large book ,  from which he never once looked up .  That 
they gave him a letter from the King containing his proposals ,  
and were gravely dismissed .  That presently the Emir sent 
for one of them ,  and conjured him ,  by his faith in his 
religion ,  to say what kind of man the King of England truly 
was ? That the ambassador ,  thus pressed ,  replied that the 
King of England was a false tyrant ,  against whom his own 
subjects would soon rise .  And that this was quite enough 
for the Emir .  

Money being ,  in his position ,  the next best thing to men .  

King John spared no means of getting it .  He set on foot 

another oppressing and torturing of the unhappy Jews  ( which 

was quite in his way )  ,  and invented a new punishment for 

one wealthy Jew of Bristol .  Until such time as that Jew 

should produce a certain large sum of money ,  the King 

sentenced him to be imprisoned ,  and ,  every day ,  to have one 

tooth violently wrenched out of his head— beginning with 

the double teeth .  For seven days ,  the oppressed man bore 

the daily pain and lost the daily tooth  ;  but ,  on the eighth ,  

he paid the money .  With the treasure raised in such ways ,  

the King made an expedition into Ireland ,  where some English 

nobles had revolted .  It was one of the veiy few places from 

which he did not run away ;  because no resistance was shown .  



JOHN 123 

He made another expedition into Wales — whence he did run 
away in the end : but not before he had got from the Welsh 
people ,  as hostages ,  twenty - seven young men of the best 
families  ;  every one of whom he caused to be slain in the 
following year .  

To Interdict and Excommunication ,  the Pope now added 
his last sentence  ;  Deposition .  He proclaimed John no 
longer King ,  absolved all his subjects from their allegiance ,  
and sent Stephen Langton and others to the King of France 
to tell him that ,  if he would invade England ,  he should be 
forgiven all his sins — at least ,  should be forgiven them by 
the Pope ,  if that would do .  

As there was nothing that King Philip desired more than 
to invade England ,  he collected a great army at Rouen ,  and 
a fleet of seventeen hundred ships to bring them over .  But 
the English people ,  however bitterly they hated the King ,  
were not a people to suffer invasion quietly .  They flocked 
to Dover ,  where the English standard was ,  in such great 
numbers to enrol themselves as defenders of their native land ,  
that there were not provisions for them ,  and the King could 
only select and retain sixty thousand .  But ,  at this crisis ,  
the Pope ,  who had his own reasons for objecting to either 
King John or King Philip being too powerful ,  interfered .  
He entrusted a legate ,  whose name was Pandolf ,  with the 
easy task of frightening King John .  He sent him to the 
English Camp ,  from France ,  to terrify him with exaggerations 
of King Philips power ,  and his own weakness in the dis -  
content of the English Barons and people .  Pandolf discharged 
his commission so well ,  that King John ,  in a wretched panic ,  
consented to acknowledge Stephen Langton  ;  to resign his 
kingdom  "  to God ,  Saint Peter ,  and Saint Paul  " —which 
meant the Pope  ;  and to hold it ,  ever afterwards ,  by the 
Popes leave ,  on payment of an annual sum of money .  To 
this shameful contract he publicly bound himself in the 
church of the Knights Templars at Dover : where he laid 
at the legates feet a part of the tribute ,  which the legate 
haughtily trampled upon .  But they do say ,  that this was 
merely a genteel flourish ,  and that he was afterwards seen to 
pick it up and pocket it .  

There was an unfortunate prophet ,  of the name of Peter ,  
who had greatly increased King Johns terrors by predicting 
that he would be unknighted  ( which the King supposed to 
signify that he would die )  before the Feast of the Ascension 



124 A CHILDS HISTORY OF ENGLAND 

should be past .  That was the day after this humiliation .  
When the next morning came ,  and the King ,  who had been 
trembling all night ,  found himself alive and safe ,  he ordered 
the prophet— and his son too— to be dragged through the 
streets at the tails of horses ,  and then hanged ,  for having 
frightened him .  

As King John had now submitted ,  the Pope ,  to King 
Philips great astonishment ,  took him under his protection ,  
and informed King Philip that he found he could not give 
him leave to invade England .  The angry Philip resolved to 
do it without his leave  ;  but he gained nothing and lost 
much  ;  for ,  the English ,  commanded by the Earl of Salisbury ,  
went over ,  in five hundred ships ,  to the French coast ,  before 
the French fleet had sailed away from it ,  and utterly defeated 
the whole .  

The Pope then took off his three sentences ,  one after 
another ,  and empowered Stephen Langton publicly to receive 
King John into the favour of the Church again ,  and to ask him 
to dinner .  The King ,  who hated Langton with all his might 
and main — and with reason too ,  for he was a great and 
a good man ,  with whom such a King could have no sympathy 
— pretended to ciy and to be very grateful .  There was 
a little difficulty about settling how much the King should 
pay as a recompense to the clergy for the losses he had 
caused them  ;  but ,  the end of it was .  that the superior 
clergy got a good deal ,  and the inferior clergy got little or 
nothing — which has also happened since King Johns time ,  
I believe .  

When all these matters were arranged ,  the King in his 
triumph became more fierce ,  and false ,  and insolent to all 
around him than he had ever been .  An alliance of 
sovereigns against King Philip ,  gave him an opportunity 
of landing an army in France  ;  with which he even took 
a town !  But ,  on the French Kings gaining a great 
victory ,  he ran away ,  of course ,  and made a truce for five 
years .  

And now the time approached when he was to be still 
further humbled ,  and made to feel ,  if he could feel anything ,  
what a wretched creature he was .  Of all men in the world ,  
Stephen Langton seemed raised up by Heaven to oppose 
and subdue him .  When he ruthlessly burnt and destroyed 
the property of his own subjects ,  because their Lords ,  the 
Barons ,  would not serve him abroad ,  Stephen Langton 



JOHN 125 

fearlessly reproved and threatened him .  When he swore to 
restore the laws of King Edward ,  or the laws of King Henry 
the First ,  Stephen Langton knew his falsehood ,  and pursued 
him through all his evasions .  When the Barons met at the 
abbey of Saint Edmunds - Bury ,  to consider their wrongs and 
the Kings oppressions ,  Stephen Langton roused them by his 
fervid words to demand a solemn charter of rights and 
liberties from their perjured master ,  and to swear ,  one by 
one ,  on the High Altar ,  that they would have it ,  or would 
wage war against him to the death .  When the King hid 
himself in London from the Barons ,  and was at last obliged 
to receive them ,  they told him roundly they would not 
believe him unless Stephen Langton became a surety that he 
would keep his word .  When he took the Cross to invest 
himself with some interest ,  and belong to something that 
was received with favour ,  Stephen Langton was still immov -  
able .  When he appealed to the Pope ,  and the Pope wrote 
to Stephen Langton in behalf of his new favourite ,  Stephen 
Langton was deaf ,  even to the Pope himself ,  and saw before 
him nothing but the welfare of England and the crimes of 
the English King .  

At Easter - time ,  the Barons assembled at Stamford ,  in 
Lincolnshire ,  in proud array ,  and ,  marching near to Oxford 
where the King was ,  delivered into the hands of Stephen 
Langton and two others ,  a list of grievances .   " And these ,  "  
they said ,   " he must redress ,  or we will do it for ourselves !  "  
When Stephen Langton told the King as much ,  and read the 
list to him ,  he went half mad with rage .  But that did him 
no more good than his afterwards trying to pacify the Barons 
with lies .  They called themselves and their followers ,   " The 
army of God and the Holy Church .  "  Marching through the 
country ,  with the people thronging to them everywhere 
 ( except at Northampton ,  where they failed in an attack upon 
the castle )  ,  they at last triumphantly set up their banner in 
London itself ,  whither the whole land ,  tired of the tyrant ,  
seemed to flock to join them .  Seven knights alone ,  of all 
the knights in England ,  remained with the King  ;  who ,  
reduced to this strait ,  at last sent the Earl of Pembroke to 
the Barons to say that he approved of everything ,  and would 
meet them to sign their charter when they would .   "  Then ,  "  
said the Barons ,   "  let the day be the fifteenth of June ,  and 
the place ,  Bunny - Mead .  "  

On Monday ,  the fifteenth of June ,  one thousand two 



126 A CHILD S HISTORY OF ENGLAND 

hundred and fourteen ,  the King came from Windsor Castle ,  
and the Barons came from the town of Staines ,  and they 
met on Runny - Mead ,  which is still a pleasant meadow by the 
Thames ,  where rushes grow in the clear water of the winding 
river ,  and its banks are green with grass and trees .  On the 
side of the Barons ,  came the General of their army ,  Robert 
Fitz - Walter ,  and a great concourse of the nobility of 
England .  With the King ,  came ,  in all ,  some four - and - twenty 
persons of any note ,  most of whom despised him ,  and were 
merely his advisers in form .  On that great day ,  and in that 
great company ,  the King signed Magna Charta — the great 
charter of England — by which he pledged himself to maintain 
the Church in its rights  ;  to relieve the Barons of oppressive 
obligations as vassals of the Crown— of which the Barons ,  in 
their turn ,  pledged themselves to relieve their vassals ,  the 
people  ;  to respect the liberties of London and all other cities 
and boroughs ;  to protect foreign merchants who came it 
England  ;  to imprison no man without a fair trial  ;  and to 
sell ,  delay ,  or deny justice to none .  As the Barons knew 
his falsehood well ,  they further required ,  as their securities ,  
that he should send out of his kingdom all his foreign 
troops  ;  that for two months they should hold possession of 
the city of London ,  and Stephen Langton of the Tower  ;  and 
that five - and - twenty of their body ,  chosen by themselves ,  
should be a lawful committee to watch the keeping of the 
charter ,  and to make war upon him if he broke it .  

All this he was obliged to yield .  He signed the charter 
with a smile ,  and ,  if he could have looked agreeable ,  would 
have done so ,  as he departed from the splendid assembly .  
When he got home to Windsor Castle ,  he was quite 
a madman in his helpless fury .  And he broke the charter 
immediately afterwards .  

He sent abroad for foreign soldiers ,  and sent to the Pope 
for help ,  and plotted to take London by surprise ,  while the 
Barons should be holding a great tournament at Stamford ,  
which they had agreed to hold there as a celebration of the 
charter .  The Barons ,  however ,  found him out and put it off .  
Then ,  when the Barons desired to see him and tax him with 
his treachery ,  he made numbers of appointments with them ,  
and kept none ,  and shifted from place to place ,  and was 
constantly sneaking and skulking about .  At last he appeared 
at Dover ,  to join his foreign soldiers ,  of whom numbers came 
into his pay  ;  and with them he besieged and took Rochester 



JOHN 127 

Castle ,  which was occupied by knights and soldiers of the 
Barons .  He would have hanged them every one  ;  but the 
leader of the foreign soldiers ,  fearful of what the English 
people might afterwards do to him ,  interfered to save the 
knights  ;  therefore the King was fain to satisfy his vengeance 
with the death of all the common men .  Then ,  he sent the 
Earl of Salisbury ,  with one portion of his army ,  to ravage 
the eastern part of his own dominions ,  while he carried fire 
and slaughter into the northern part  ;  torturing ,  plundering ,  
killing ,  and inflicting every possible cruelty upon the people  ;  
and ,  every morning ,  setting a worthy example to his men by 
setting fire ,  with his own monster - hands ,  to the house where 
he had slept last night .  Nor was this all  ;  for the Pope ,  
coming to the aid of his precious friend ,  laid the kingdom 
under an Interdict again ,  because the people took part with 
the Barons .  It did not much matter ,  for the people had 
grown so used to it now ,  that they had begun to think 
nothing about it .  It occurred to them — perhaps to Stephen 
Langton too — that they could keep their churches open ,  and 
ring their bells ,  without the Popes permission as well as 
with it .  So ,  they tried the experiment— and found that it 
succeeded perfectly .  

It being now impossible to bear the country ,  as a wilderness 
of cruelty ,  or longer to hold any terms with such a forsworn 
outlaw of a King ,  the Barons sent to Louis ,  son of the 
French monarch ,  to offer him the English crown .  Caring as 
little for the Popes excommunication of him if he accepted 
the offer ,  as it is possible his father may have cared for 
the Popes forgiveness of his sins ,  he landed at Sandwich 
 ( King John immediately running away from Dover ,  where 
he happened to be )  ,  and went on to London .  The Scottish 
King ,  with whom many of the Northern English Lords had 
taken refuge  ;  numbers of the foreign soldiers ,  numbers of 
the Barons ,  and numbers of the people went over to him every 
day  ;  — King John ,  the while ,  continually running away in all 
directions .  The career of Louis was checked ,  however ,  by 
the suspicions of the Barons ,  founded on the dying declara -  
tion of a French Lord ,  that when the kingdom was conquered 
he was sworn to banish them as traitors ,  and to give their 
estates to some of his own Nobles .  Rather than suffer this ,  
some of the Barons hesitated : others even went over to 
King John .  

It seemed to be the turning - point of King Johns fortunes .  



128 A CHILDS HISTORY OF ENGLAND 

for ,  in his savage and murderous course ,  he had now taken 
some towns and met with some successes .  But ,  happily for 
England and humanity ,  his death was near .  Crossing a 
dangerous quicksand ,  called the Wash ,  not very far from 
Wisbeach ,  the tide came up and nearly drowned his army .  
He and his soldiers escaped  ;  but ,  looking back from the 
shore when he was safe ,  he saw the roaring water sweep 
down in a torrent ,  overturn the waggons ,  horses ,  and men ,  
that carried his treasure ,  and engulph them in a raging 
whirlpool from which nothing could be delivered .  

Cursing ,  and swearing ,  and gnawing his fingers ,  he went 
on to Swinestead Abbey ,  where the monks set before him 
quantities of pears ,  and peaches ,  and new cider — some say 
poison too ,  but there is very little reason to suppose so — of 
which he ate and drank in an immoderate and beastly way .  
All night he lay ill of a burning fever ,  and haunted with 
horrible fears .  Next day .  they put him in a horse - litter ,  and 
carried him to Sleaford Castle ,  where he passed another night 
of pain and horror .  Next day ,  they carried him ,  with greater 
difficulty than on the day before ,  to the castle of Newark 
upon Trent  ;  and there ,  on the eighteenth of October ,  in the 
forty - ninth year of his age ,  and the seventeenth of his vile 
reign ,  was an end of this miserable brute .  



CHAPTER XV 

ENGLAND UNDER HENRY THE THIRD ,  CALLED ,  OF 

WINCHESTER 

If any of the English Barons remembered the murdered 
Arthurs sister ,  Eleanor the fair maid of Brittany ,  shut up 
in her convent at Bristol ,  none among them spoke of her now ,  
or maintained her right to the Crown .  The dead Usurpers 
eldest boy ,  Henry by name ,  was taken by the Earl of 
Pembroke ,  the Marshal of England ,  to the city of Gloucester ,  
and there crowned in great haste when he was only ten 
years old .  As the Crown itself had been lost with the 
Kings treasure ,  in the raging water ,  and ,  as there was no 
time to make another ,  they put a circle of plain gold upon 
his head instead .   "  We have been the enemies of this 
childs father ,  "  said Lord Pembroke ,  a good and true gentle -  
man ,  to the few Lords who were present ,   " and he merited 
our ill - will  ;  but the child himself is innocent ,  and his youth 
demands our friendship and protection .  "  Those Lords felt 
tenderly towards the little boy ,  remembering their own 
young children  ;  and they bowed their heads ,  and said ,  
 " Long live King Henry the Third !  "  

Next ,  a great council met at Bristol ,  revised Magna Charta ,  
and made Lord Pembroke Regent or Protector of England ,  
as the King was too young to reign alone .  The next thing 
to be done ,  was to get rid of Prince Louis of France ,  and to 
win over those English Barons who were still ranged under 
his banner .  He was strong in many parts of England ,  and 
in London itself  ;  and he held ,  among other places ,  a certain 
Castle called the Castle of Mount Sorel ,  in Leicestershire .  
To this fortress ,  after some skirmishing and truce - making ,  
Lord Pembroke laid siege .  Louis despatched an army of six 
hundred knights and twenty thousand soldiers to relieve it .  
Lord Pembroke ,  who was not strong enough for such a force ,  
retired with all his men .  The army of the French Prince ,  
which had marched there with fire and plunder ,  marched 



130 A CHILDS HISTORY OF ENC4LAND 

away with fire and plunder ,  and came ,  in a boastful swagger -  
ing manner ,  to Lincoln .  The town submitted  ;  but the 
Castle in the town ,  held by a brave widow lady ,  named 
Nichola de Camville  ( whose property it was )  ,  made such 
a sturdy resistance ,  that the French Count in command of 
the army of the French Prince found it necessary to besiege 
this Castle .  While he was thus engaged ,  word was brought 
to him that Lord Pembroke ,  with four hundred knights ,  two 
hundred and fifty men with cross - bows ,  and a stout force 
both of horse and foot ,  was marching towards him .   "  What 
care I ?  "  said the French Count .   "  The Englishman is not 
so mad as to attack me and my great army in a walled town  !   "  
But the Englishman did it for all that ,  and did it — not so 
madly but so wisely ,  that he decoyed the great army into 
the narrow ,  ill - paved lanes and byways of Lincoln ,  where 
its horse - soldiers could not ride in any strong body  ;  and 
there he made such havoc with them ,  that the whole force 
surrendered themselves prisoners ,  except the Count  ;  who 
said that he would never yield to any English traitor alive ,  
and accordingly got killed .  The end of this victory ,  which the 
English called ,  for a joke ,  the Fair of Lincoln ,  was the usual 
one in those times — the common men were slain without 
any mercy ,  and the knights and gentlemen paid ransom and 
went home .  

The wife of Louis ,  the fair Blanche of Castile ,  dutifully 
equipped a fleet of eighty good ships ,  and sent it over from 
France to her husbands aid .  An English fleet of forty ships ,  
some good and some bad ,  gallantly met them near the mouth 
of the Thames ,  and took or sunk sixty - five in one fight .  
This great loss put an end to the French Princes hopes .  
A treaty was made at Lambeth ,  in virtue of which the 
English Barons who had remained attached to his cause 
returned to their allegiance ,  and it was engaged on both 
sides that the Prince and all his troops should retire peace -  
fully to France .  It was time to go  ;  for war had made him 
so poor that he was obliged to borrow money from the 
citizens of London to pay his expenses home .  

Lord Pembroke afterwards applied himself to governing 
the country justly ,  and to healing the quarrels and disturb -  
ances that had arisen among men in the days of the bad 
King John .  He caused Magna Charta to be still more 
improved ,  and so amended the Forest Laws that a Peasant 
was no longer put to death for killing a stag in a Royal 



HENRY THE THIRD 131 

Forest ,  but was only imprisoned .  It would have been well 
for England if it could have had so good a Protector many 
years longer ,  but that was not to be .  Within three years 
after the young Kings Coronation ,  Lord Pembroke died  ;  
and you may see his tomb ,  at this day ,  in the old Temple 
Church in London .  

The Protectorship was now divided .  Peter de Eoches ,  
whom King John had made Bishop of Winchester ,  was 
entrusted with the care of the person of the young sovereign  ;  
and the exercise of the Boyal authority was confided to Earl 
Hubert de Burgh .  These two personages had from the first 
no liking for each other ,  and soon became enemies .  When 
the young King was declared of age ,  Peter de Eoches ,  finding 
that Hubert increased in power and favour ,  retired discon -  
tentedly ,  and went abroad .  For nearly ten years afterwards 
Hubert had full sway alone .  

But ten years is a long time to hold the favour of a King .  
This King ,  too ,  as he grew up ,  showed a strong resemblance 
to his father ,  in feebleness ,  inconsistency ,  and irresolution .  
The best that can be said of him is that he was not cruel .  
De Eoches coming home again ,  after ten years ,  and being a 
novelty ,  the King began to favour him and to look coldly on 
Hubert .  Wanting money besides ,  and having made Hubert 
rich ,  he began to dislike Hubert .  At last he was made to 
believe ,  or pretended to believe ,  that Hubert had misap -  
propriated some of the Eoyal treasure  ;  and ordered him to 
furnish an account of all he had done in his administration .  
Besides which ,  the foolish charge was brought against Hubert 
that he had made himself the Kings favourite by magic .  
Hubert very well knowing that he could never defend himself 
against such nonsense ,  and that his old enemy must be deter -  
mined on his ruin ,  instead of answering the charges fled to 
Merton Abbey .  Then the King ,  in a violent passion ,  sent 
for the Mayor of London ,  and said to the Mayor ,   " Take 
twenty thousand citizens ,  and drag me Hubert de Burgh out 
of that abbey ,  and bring him here .  "  The Mayor posted off 
to do it ,  but the Archbishop of Dublin  ( who was a friend 
of Huberts )  warning the King that an abbey was a sacred 
place ,  and that if he committed any violence there ,  he must 
answer for it to the Church ,  the King changed his mind and 
called the Mayor back ,  and declared that Hubert should have 
four months to prepare his defence ,  and should be safe and 
free during that time .  



132 A CHrLDS HISTORY OP ENGLAND 

Hubert ,  who relied upon the Kings word ,  though I think 
he was old enough to have known better ,  came out of Merton 
Abbey upon these conditions ,  and journeyed away to see his 
wife : a Scottish Princess who was then at St .  Edmunds -  
Bury .  

Almost as soon as he had departed from the Sanctuary ,  
his enemies persuaded the weak King to send out one Sir 
Godfrey de Crancumb ,  who commanded three hundred 
vagabonds called the Black Band ,  with orders to seize him .  
They came up with him at a little town in Essex ,  called 
Brentwood ,  when he was in bed .  He leaped out of bed ,  got 
out of the house ,  fled to the church ,  ran up to the altar ,  and 
laid his hand upon the cross .  Sir Godfrey and the Black 
Band ,  caring neither for church ,  altar ,  nor cross ,  dragged him 
forth to the church door ,  with their drawn swords flashing 
round his head ,  and sent for a Smith to rivet a set of chains 
upon him .  When the Smith  ( I wish I knew his name  !  )  
was brought ,  all dark and swarthy with the smoke of his 
forge ,  and panting with the speed he had made  ;  and the 
Black Band ,  falling aside to show him the Prisoner ,  cried 
with a loud uproar ,   "  Make the fetters heavy  !  make them 
strong  !   "  the Smith dropped upon his knee — but not to the 
Black Band — and said ,   "  This is the brave Earl Hubert de 
Burgh ,  who fought at Dover Castle ,  and destroyed the 
French fleet ,  and has done his country much good service .  
You may kill me ,  if you like ,  but I will never make a chain 
for Earl Hubert de Burgh  !   "  

The Black Band never blushed ,  or they might have blushed 
at this .  They knocked the Smith about from one to another ,  
and swore at him ,  and tied the Earl on horseback ,  undressed 
as he was ,  and carried him off to the Tower of London .  
The Bishops ,  however ,  were so indignant at the violation of 
the Sanctuary of the Church ,  that the frightened King soon 
ordered the Black Band to take him back again  ;  at the same 
time commanding the Sheriff of Essex to prevent his escaping 
out of Brentwood Church .  Well  !  the Sheriff dug a deep 
trench all round the church ,  and erected a high fence ,  and 
watched the church night and day  ;  the Black Band and 
their Captain watched it too ,  like three hundred and one 
black wolves .  For thirty - nine days ,  Hubert de Burgh 
remained within .  At length ,  upon the fortieth day ,  cold and 
hunger were too much for him ,  and he gave himself up to 
the Black Band ,  who carried him off .  for the second time .  



HENRY THE THIRD 133 

to the Tower .  When his trial came on ,  he refused to plead  ;  
but at last it was arranged that he should give up all the 
royal lands which had been bestowed upon him ,  and should 
be kept at the Castle of Devizes ,  in what was called  "  free 
prison ,  "  in charge of four knights appointed by four lords .  
There ,  he remained almost a year ,  until ,  learning that a 
follower of his old enemy the Bishop w r as made Keeper of 
the Castle ,  and fearing that he might be killed by treachery ,  
he climbed the ramparts one dark night ,  dropped from the 
top of the high Castle wall into the moat ,  and coming safely 
to the ground ,  took refuge in another church .  From this 
place he was delivered by a party of horse despatched to 
his help by some nobles ,  who were by this time in revolt 
against the King ,  and assembled in Wales .  He was finally 
pardoned and restored to his estates ,  but he lived privately ,  
and never more aspired to a high post in the realm ,  or to 
a high place in the Kings favour .  And thus end — more 
happily than the stories of many favourites of Kings — the 
adventures of Earl Hubert de Burgh .  

The nobles ,  who had risen in revolt ,  were stirred up to 
rebellion by the overbearing conduct of the Bishop of Win -  
chester ,  who ,  finding that the King secretly hated the Great 
Charter which had been forced from his father ,  did his 
utmost to confirm him in that dislike ,  and in the preference 
he showed to foreigners over the English .  Of this ,  and of 
his even publicly declaring that the Barons of England were 
inferior to those of France ,  the English Lords complained 
with such bitterness ,  that the King ,  finding them well sup -  
ported by the clergy ,  became frightened for his throne ,  and 
sent away the Bishop and all his foreign associates .  On his 
marriage ,  however ,  with Eleanok ,  a French lady ,  the daugh -  
ter of the Count of Provence ,  he openly favoured the 
foreigners again  ;  and so many of his wifes relations came 
over ,  and made such an immense family - party at court ,  and 
got so many good things ,  and pocketed so much money ,  and 
were so high with the English whose money they pocketed ,  
that the bolder English Barons murmured openly about a 
clause there was in the Great Charter ,  which provided for 
the banishment of unreasonable favourites .  But ,  the 
foreigners only laughed disdainfully ,  and said ,   "  What are 
your English laws to us? "  

King Philip of France had died ,  and had been succeeded 
by Prince Louis ,  who had also died after a short reign of 



134 A CHILD S HISTORY OF ENGLAND 

three years ,  and had been succeeded by his son of the same 
name — so moderate and just a man that he was not the 
least in the world like a King ,  as Kings went .  Isabella ,  
King Henrys mother ,  wished very much  ( for a certain spite 
she had )  that England should make war against this King  ;  
and ,  as King Henry was a mere puppet in anybodys hands 
who knew how to manage his feebleness ,  she easily carried 
her point with him .  But ,  the Parliament were determined 
to give him no money for such a war .  So ,  to defy the Par -  
liament ,  he packed up thirty large casks of silver — I dont 
know how he got so much  ;  I dare say he screwed it out of 
the miserable Jews — and put them aboard ship ,  and went 
away himself to carry war into France : accompanied by his 
mother and his brother Richard ,  Earl of Cornwall ,  who was 
rich and clever .  But he only got well beaten ,  and came 
home .  

The good - humour of the Parliament was not restored by 
this .  They reproached the King with wasting the public 
money to make greedy foreigners rich ,  and were so stern 
with him ,  and so determined not to let him have more of it 
to waste if they could help it ,  that he was at his wits end 
for some ,  and tried so shamelessly to get all he could from 
his subjects ,  by excuses or by force ,  that the people used to 
say the King was the sturdiest beggar in England .  He took 
the Cross ,  thinking to get some money by that means  ;  but ,  
as it was veiy well known that he never meant to go on a 
crusade ,  he got none .  In all this contention ,  the Londoners 
were particularly keen against the King ,  and the King hated 
them Warmly in return .  Hating or loving ,  however ,  made 
no difference  ;  he continued in the same condition for nine 
or ten years ,  when at last the Barons said that if he would 
solemnly confirm their liberties afresh ,  the Parliament would 
vote him a large sum .  

As he readily consented ,  there was a great meeting held 
in Westminster Hall ,  one pleasant day in May ,  when all the 
clergy ,  dressed in their robes and holding every one of them 
a burning candle in his hand ,  stood up  ( the Barons being 
also there )  while the Archbishop of Canterbury read the 
sentence of excommunication against any man ,  and all men ,  
who should henceforth ,  in any way ,  infringe the Great 
Charter of the Kingdom .  When he had done ,  they all put 
out their burning candles with a curse upon the soul of any 
one ,  and every one ,  who should merit that sentence .  The 



HENRY THE THIRD 1 35 

King concluded with an oath to keep the Charter ,   "  As I am 
a man ,  as I am a Christian ,  as I am a Knight ,  as I am a 
King  !   "  

It was easy to make oaths ,  and easy to break them  ;  and 
the King did both ,  as his father had done before him .  He 
took to his old courses again when he was supplied with 
money ,  and soon cured of their weakness the few who had 
ever really trusted him .  When his money was gone ,  and 
he was once more borrowing and begging everywhere with 
a meanness worthy of his nature ,  he got into a difficulty with 
the Pope respecting the Crown of Sicily ,  which the Pope 
said he had a right to give away ,  and which he offered to 
King Henry for his second son ,  Prince Edmund .  But .  if 
you or I give away what we have not got ,  and what belongs 
to somebody else ,  it is likely that the person to whom we 
give it ,  will have some trouble in taking it .  It was exactly 
so in this case .  It was necessary to conquer the Sicilian 
Crown before it could be put upon young Edmunds head .  
It could not be conquered without money .  The Pope 
ordered the clergy to raise money .  The clergy ,  however ,  
were not so obedient to him as usual  ;  they had been dis -  
puting with him for some time about his unjust preference 
of Italian Priests in England  ;  and they had begun to doubt 
whether the Kings chaplain ,  whom he allowed to be paid 
for preaching in seven hundred churches ,  could possibly be ,  
even by the Popes favour ,  in seven hundred places at once .  
 " The Pope and the King together ,  "  said the Bishop of 
London ,   "  may take the mitre off my head  ;  but ,  if they do ,  
they will find that I shall put on a soldiers helmet .  I pay 
nothing .  "  The Bishop of Worcester was as bold as the 
Bishop of London ,  and would pay nothing either .  Such 
sums as the more timid or more helpless of the clergy did 
raise were squandered away ,  without doing any good to the 
King ,  or bringing the Sicilian Crown an inch nearer to 
Prince Edmunds head .  The end of the business was ,  that 
the Pope gave the Crown to the brother of the King of 
Prance  ( who conquered it for himself )  ,  and sent the King of 
England in ,  a bill of one hundred thousand pounds for the 
expenses of not having won it .  

The King was now so much distressed that we might 
almost pity him ,  if it were possible to pity a King so shabby 
and ridiculous .  His clever brother ,  Richard ,  had bought the 
title of King of the Romans from the German people ,  and 



136 A CHILDS 1I1STOKY OF ENGLAND 

was no longer near him ,  to help him with advice .  The 
clergy ,  resisting the very Pope ,  were in alliance with the 
Barons .  The Barons were headed hy Simon de Montfokt ,  
Earl of Leicester ,  married to King Henrys sister ,  and ,  
though a foreigner himself ,  the most popular man in England 
against the foreign favourites .  When the King next met his 
Parliament ,  the Barons ,  led hy this Earl ,  came before him ,  
armed from head to foot ,  and cased in armour .  When the 
Parliament again assembled ,  in a months time ,  at Oxford ,  
this Earl was at their head ,  and the King was obliged to 
consent ,  on oath ,  to what was called a Committee of Govern -  
ment : consisting of twenty - four members : twelve chosen 
by the Barons ,  and twelve chosen by himself .  

But ,  at a good time for him ,  his brother Richard came 
back .  Richards first act  ( the Barons would not admit him 
into England on other terms )  was to swear to be faithful to 
the Committee of Government— which he immediately began 
to oppose with all his might .  Then ,  the Barons began to 
quarrel among themselves  ;  especially the proud Earl of 
Gloucester with the Earl of Leicester ,  who went abroad in 
disgust .  Then ,  the people began to be dissatisfied with the 
Barons ,  because they did not do enough for them .  The 
Kings chances seemed so good again at length ,  that he took 
heart enough— or caught it from his brother — to tell the 
Committee of Government that he abolished them— as to his 
oath ,  never mind that ,  the Pope said  ! — and to seize all the 
money in the Mint ,  and to shut himself up in the Tower of 
London .  Here he was joined by his eldest son ,  Prince 
Edward  ;  and ,  from the Tower ,  he made public a letter of 
the Popes to the world in general ,  informing all men that 
he had been an excellent and just King for five - and - forty 

years .  

As everybody knew he had been nothing of the sort ,  
nobody cared much for this document .  It so chanced that 
the proud Earl of Gloucester dying ,  was succeeded by his 
son  ;  and that his son ,  instead of being the enemy of the 
Earl of Leicester ,  was  ( for the time )  his friend .  It fell out ,  
therefore ,  that these two Earls joined their forces ,  took 
several of the Royal Castles in the country ,  and advanced as 
hard as they could on London .  The London people ,  always 
opposed to the King ,  declared for them with great joy .  The 
King himself remained shut up ,  not at all gloriously ,  in the 
Tower .  Prince Edward made the best of his way to 



HENRY THE THIRD 137 

Windsor Castle .  His mother ,  the Queen ,  attempted to 
follow him by water  ;  but ,  the people seeing her barge row -  
ing up the river ,  and hating her with all their hearts ,  ran to 
London Bridge ,  got together a quantity of stones and mud ,  
and pelted the barge as it came through ,  crying furiously ,  
 "  Drown the Witch  !  Drown her  !  * They were so near 
doing it ,  that the Mayor took the old lady under his pro -  
tection ,  and shut her up in St .  Pauls until the danger was 
past .  

It would require a great deal of writing on my part ,  and 
a great deal of reading on yours ,  to follow the King through 
his disputes with the Barons ,  and to follow the Barons 
through their disputes with one another — so I will make 
short work of it for both of us ,  and only relate the chief 
events that arose out of these quarrels .  The good King of 
France was asked to decide between them .  He gave it as 
his opinion that the King must maintain the Great Charter ,  
and that the Barons must give up the Committee of Govern -  
ment ,  and all the rest that had been done by the Parlia -  
ment at Oxford: which the Koyalists ,  or Kings party ,  
scornfully called the Mad Parliament .  The Barons declared 
that these were not fair terms ,  and they would not accept 
them .  Then they caused the great bell of St .  Pauls to be 
tolled ,  for the purpose of rousing up the London people ,  who 
armed themselves at the dismal sound and formed quite an 
army in the streets .  I am sorry to say ,  however ,  that 
instead of falling upon the Kings party with whom their 
quarrel was ,  they fell upon the miserable Jews ,  and killed 
at least five hundred of them .  They pretended that some of 
these Jews were on the Kings side ,  and that they kept 
hidden in their houses ,  for the destruction of the people ,  
a certain terrible composition called Greek Fire ,  which could 
not be put out with water ,  but only burnt the fiercer for it .  
What they really did keep in their houses was money  ;  and 
this their cruel enemies wanted ,  and this their cruel enemies 
took ,  like robbers and murderers .  

The Earl of Leicester put himself at the head of these 
Londoners and other forces ,  and followed the King to Lewes 
in Sussex ,  where he lay encamped with his army .  Before 
giving the Kings forces battle here ,  the Earl addressed his 
soldiers ,  and said that King Henry the Third had broken so 
many oaths ,  that he had become the enemy of God ,  and 
therefore they would wear white crosses on their breasts ,  as 
1 .  S3 



138 A CHILDS HISTORY OF ENGLAND 

if they were arrayed ,  not against a fellow - Christian ,  but 
against a Turk .  White - crossed accordingly ,  they rushed 
into the fight .  They would have lost the day — the King 
having on his side all the foreigners in England : and ,  from 
Scotland ,  John Comyn ,  John Baliol ,  and Robert Bruce ,  
with all their men — but for the impatience of Prince 
Edward ,  who ,  in his hot desire to have vengeance on the 
people of London ,  threw the whole of his fathers army into 
confusion .  He was taken Prisoner  ;  so was the King  ;  so 
was the Kings brother the King of the Romans  ;  and five 
thousand Englishmen were left dead upon the bloody grass .  

For this success ,  the Pope excommunicated the Earl of 
Leicester : which neither the Earl nor the people cared at 
all about .  The people loved him and supported him .  and he 
became the real King  ;  having all the power of the govern -  
ment in his own hands ,  though he was outwardly respectful 
to King Henry the Third ,  whom he took with him wher -  
ever he went ,  like a poor old limp court - card .  He summoned 
a Parliament  ( in the year one thousand two hundred and 
sixty - five )  which was the first Parliament in England that 
the people had any real share in electing  ;  and he grew more 
and more in favour with the people every day ,  and they 
stood by him in whatever he did .  

Many of the other Barons ,  and particularly the Earl of 
Gloucester ,  who had become by this time as proud as his 
father ,  grew jealous of this powerful and popular Earl ,  who 
was proud too ,  and began to conspire against him .  Since 
the battle of Lewes ,  Prince Edward had been kept as 
a hostage ,  and ,  though he was otherwise treated like a Prince ,  
had never been allowed to go out without attendants 
appointed by the Earl of Leicester ,  who watched him .  The 
conspiring Lords found means to propose to him ,  in secret ,  
that they should assist him to escape ,  and should make him 
their leader  ;  to which he very heartily consented .  

So ,  on a day that was agreed upon ,  he said to his attendants 
after dinner  ( being then at Hereford )  ,  I should like to ride 
on horseback ,  this fine afternoon ,  a little way into the 
country .  "  As they ,  too ,  thought it would be very pleasant 
to have a canter in the sunshine ,  they all rode out of the 
town together in a gay little troop .  When they came to 
a fins level piece of turf ,  the Prince fell to comparing their 
horses one with another ,  and offering bets that one was faster 
than another  ;  and the attendants ,  suspecting no harm ,  rode 



HENRY THE THIRD 139 

galloping matches until their horses were quite tired .  The 
Prince rode no matches himself ,  hut looked on from his 
saddle ,  and staked his money .  Thus they passed the whole 
merry afternoon .  Now .  the sun was setting ,  and they were 
all going slowly up a hill ,  the Princes horse very fresh and 
all the other horses very weary ,  when a strange rider 
mounted on a grey steed appeared at the top of the hill ,  
and waved his hat .   " What does the fellow mean? "  said 
the attendants one to another .  The Prince answered on the 
instant by setting spurs to his horse ,  dashing away at his 
utmost speed ,  joining the man ,  riding into the midst of 
a little crowd of horsemen who were then seen waiting 
under some trees ,  and who closed around him  ;  and so he 
departed in a cloud of dust ,  leaving the road empty of all 
but the baffled attendants ,  who sat looking at one another ,  
while their horses drooped their ears and panted .  

The Prince joined the Earl of Gloucester at Ludlow .  The 
Earl of Leicester ,  with a part of the army and the stupid 
old King ,  was at Hereford .  One of the Earl of Leicesters 
sons ,  Simon de Montfort ,  with another part of the army ,  
was in Sussex .  To prevent these two parts from uniting was 
the Princes first object .  He attacked Simon de Montfort 
by night ,  defeated him ,  seized his banners and treasure ,  and 
forced him into Kenilworth Castle in Warwickshire ,  which 
belonged to his family .  

His father ,  the Earl of Leicester ,  in the meanwhile ,  not 
knowing what had happened ,  marched out of Hereford ,  with 
his part of the army and the King ,  to meet him .  He came ,  
on a bright morning in August ,  to Evesham ,  which is watered 
by the pleasant i*iver Avon .  Looking rather anxiously across 
the prospect towards Kenilworth ,  he saw his own banners 
advancing  ;  and his face brightened with joy .  But ,  it clouded 
darkly when he presently perceived that the banners were 
captured ,  and in the enemys hands  ;  and he said ,   "  It is over .  
The Lord have mercy on our souls ,  for our bodies are Prince 
Edwards  !   "  

He fought like a true Knight ,  nevertheless .  When his 
horse was killed under him ,  he fought on foot .  It was 
a fierce battle ,  and the dead lay in heaps everywhere .  The 
old King ,  stuck up in a suit of armour on a big war - horse ,  
which didnt mind him at all ,  and which carried him into all 
sorts of places where he didnt want to go ,  got into every -  
bodys way ,  and very nearly got knocked on the head by one 



140 A CHILD S HISTORY OF ENGLAND 

of his sons men .  But he managed to pipe out ,   " I am 
Harry of Winchester  !   "  and the Prince ,  who heard him ,  
seized his bridle ,  and took him out of peril .  The Earl of 
Leicester still fought bravely ,  until his best son Henry was 
killed ,  and the bodies of his best friends choked his path  ;  
and then he fell ,  still fighting ,  sword in hand .  They 
mangled his body ,  and sent it as a present to a noble lady —  -  
but a very unpleasant lady ,  I should think — who was the 
wife of his worst enemy .  They could not mangle his 
memory in the minds of the faithful people ,  though .  Many 
years afterwards ,  they loved him more than ever ,  and 
regarded him as a Saint ,  and always spoke of him as  " Sir 
Simon the Righteous .  "  

And even though he was dead ,  the cause for which he had 
fought still lived ,  and was strong ,  and forced itself upon the 
King in the very hour of victory .  Henry found himself 
obliged to respect the Great Charter ,  however much he hated 
it .  and to make laws similar to the laws of the Great Earl 
of Leicester ,  and to be moderate and forgiving towards the 
people at last — even towards the people of London ,  who had 
so long opposed him .  There were more risings before all 
this was done ,  but they were set at rest by these means ,  and 
Prince Edward did his best in all things to restore peace .  
One Sir Adam de Gourdon was the last dissatisfied knight 
in arms  ;  but ,  the Prince vanquished him in single combat ,  
in a wood ,  and nobly gave him his life ,  and became his 
friend ,  instead of slaying him .  Sir Adam was not un -  
grateful .  He ever afterwards remained devoted to his 
generous conqueror .  

When the troubles of the Kingdom  . were thus calmed ,  
Prince Edward and his cousin Heniy took the Cross ,  and 
went away to the Holy Land ,  with many English Lords and 
Knights .  Four years afterwards the King of the Romans 
died ,  and ,  next year  ( one thousand two hundred and seventy -  
two )  ,  his brother the weak King of England died .  He was 
sixty - eight years old then ,  and had reigned fifty - six years .  
He was as much of a King in death ,  as he had ever been in 
life .  He was the mere pale shadow of a King at all times .  



CHAPTER XVI 

ENGLAND UNDER EDWARD THE FIRST ,  CALLED 
LONGSHANKS 

It was now the year of our Lord one thousand two hundred 
and seventy - two  ;  and Prince Edward ,  the heir to the throne ,  
being away in the Holy Land ,  knew nothing of his fathers 
death .  The Barons ,  however ,  proclaimed him King ,  
immediately after the Eoyal funeral  ;  and the people very 
willingly consented ,  since most men knew too well by this 
time what the horrors of a contest for the crown were .  So 
King Edward the First ,  called ,  in a not very complimentary 
manner ,  Loxgshanks ,  because of the slenderness of his legs ,  
was peacefully accepted by the English Nation .  

His legs had need to be strong ,  however long and thin 
they were  ;  for they had to support him through many 
difficulties on the fiery sands of Asia ,  where his small force 
of soldiers fainted ,  died ,  deserted ,  and seemed to melt 
away .  But his prowess made light of it ,  and he said ,  
 "  I will go on ,  if I go on with no other follower than my 
groom  !   "  

A Prince of this spirit gave the Turks a deal of trouble ,  
He stormed Nazareth ,  at which place ,  of all places on earth .  
I am sorry to relate ,  he made a frightful slaughter of 
innocent people  ;  and then he went to Acre ,  where he got 
a truce of ten years from the Sultan .  He had very nearly 
lost his life in Acre ,  through the treachery of a Saracen 
Noble ,  called the Emir of Jaffa ,  who ,  making the pretence 
that he had some idea of turning Christian and wanted to 
know all about that religion ,  sent a trusty messenger to 
Edward very often — with a dagger in his sleeve .  At last ,  
one Friday in Whitsun week ,  when it was very hot ,  and all 
the sandy prospect lay beneath the blazing sun ,  burnt up 
like a great overdone biscuit ,  and Edward was lying on 
a couch ,  dressed for coolness in only a loose robe ,  the 
messenger ,  with his chocolate - coloured face and his bright 



I42 A CHILD S HISTORY OF ENGLAND 

dark eyes and white teoth .  came creeping in with a letter ,  
and kneeled down like a tame tiger .  But ,  the moment 
Edward stretched out his hand to take the lettei* ,  the tiger 
made a spring at his heart .  He was quick ,  but Edward was 
quick too .  He seized the traitor by his chocolate throat ,  
threw him to the ground ,  and slew him with the very dagger 
he had drawn .  The weapon had struck Edward in the arm ,  
and although the wound itself was slight ,  it threatened to be 
mortal ,  for the blade of the dagger had been smeared with 
poison .  Thanks ,  however ,  to a better surgeon than was 
often to be found in those times ,  and to some wholesome 
herbs ,  and above all ,  to his faithful wife ,  Eleanor ,  who 
devotedly nursed him ,  and is said by some to have sucked 
the poison from the wound with her own red lips  ( which 
I am very willing to believe )  ,  Edward soon recovered and 
was sound again .  

As the King his father had sent entreaties to him to return 
home ,  he now began the journey .  He had got as far as 
Italy ,  when he met messengers who brought him intelligence 
of the Kings death .  Hearing that all was quiet at home ,  
he made no haste to return to his own dominions ,  but paid 
a visit to the Pope ,  and went in state through various 
Italian Towns ,  where he was welcomed witli acclamations 
as a mighty champion of the Cross from the Holy Land ,  and 
where he received presents of purple mantles and prancing 
horses ,  and went along in great triumph .  The shouting 
people little knew that he was the last English monarch who 
would ever embark in a crusade ,  or that within twenty years 
every conquest which the Christians had made in the Holy 
Land at the cost of so much blood ,  would be won back by 
the Turks .  But all this came to pass .  

There was ,  and there is ,  an old town standing in a plain 
in France ,  called Chalons .  When the King was coming 
towards this place on his way to England ,  a wily French 
Lord ,  called the Count of Chalons ,  sent him a polite 
challenge to come with his knights and hold a fair tourna -  
ment with the Count and his knights ,  and make a day of it 
with sword and lance .  It was represented to the King that 
the Count of Chalons was not to be trusted ,  and that ,  instead 
of a holiday fight for mere show and in good humour ,  he 
secretly meant a real battle ,  in which the English should bo 
defeated by superior force .  

The King ,  however ,  nothing afraid ,  went to the appointed 



EDWARD THE FIRST 1 4 



:> 



place on the appointed day with a thousand followers .  
When the Count came with two thousand and attacked the 
English in earnest ,  the English rushed at them with such 
valour that the Counts men and the Counts horses soon 
began to be tumbled down all over the field .  The Count 
himself seized the King round the neck ,  but the King 
tumbled him out of his saddle in return for the compliment ,  
and ,  jumping from his own horse ,  and standing over him ,  
beat away at his iron armour like a blacksmith hammering 
on his anvil .  Even when the Count owned himself defeated 
and offered his sword ,  the King would not do him the 
honour to take it ,  but made him yield it up to a common 
soldier .  There had been such fury shown in this fight ,  that 
it was afterwards called the little Battle of Chalons .  

The English were very well disposed to be proud of their 
King after these adventures  ;  so ,  when he landed at Dover in 
the year one thousand two hundred and seventy - four  ( being 
then thirty - six years old )  ,  and went on to Westminster where 
he and his good Queen were crowned with great magnificence ,  
splendid rejoicings took place .  For the coronation - feast 
there were provided ,  among other eatables ,  four hundred 
oxen ,  four hundred sheep ,  four hundred and fifty pigs ,  
eighteen wild boars ,  three hundred flitches of bacon ,  and 
twenty thousand fowls .  The fountains and conduits in the 
street flowed with red and white wine instead of water  ;  the 
rich citizens hung silks and cloths of the brightest colours 
out of their windows to increase the beauty of the show ,  and 
threw out gold and silver by whole handfuls to make 
scrambles for the crowd .  In short ,  there was such eating 
and drinking ,  such music and capering ,  such a ringing of 
bells and tossing of caps ,  such a shouting ,  and singing ,  and 
revelling ,  as the narrow overhanging streets of old London 
City had not witnessed for many a long day .  All the 
people were merry — except the poor Jews ,  who ,  trembling 
within their houses ,  and scarcely daring to peep out ,  began 
to foresee that they w r ould have to find the money for this 
joviality sooner or later .  

To dismiss this sad subject of the Jews for the present ,  I 
am sorry to add that in this reign they were most unmerci -  
fully pillaged .  They were hanged in great numbers ,  on 
accusations of having clipped the Kings coin — which all kinds 
of people had done .  They were heavily taxed  ;  they were 
disgracefully badged  ;  they were ,  on one day ,  thirteen years 



144 A CHILD S HISTORY OF ENGLAND 

after the coronation ,  taken up with their wives and children 
and thrown into beastly prisons ,  until they purchased their 
release by paying to the King twelve thousand pounds .  
Finally ,  every kind of property belonging to them was seized 
by the King ,  except so little as would defray the charge of 
their taking themselves away into foreign countries .  Many 
years elapsed before the hope of gain induced any of their 
race to return to England ,  where they had been treated so 
heartlessly and had suffered so much .  

If King Edward the First had been as bad a king to 
Christians as he was to Jews ,  he would have been bad indeed .  
But he was ,  in general ,  a wise and great monarch ,  under 
whom the country much improved .  He had no love for the 
Great Charter — few Kings had ,  through many many years — 
but he had high qualities .  The first bold object which he 
conceived when he came home ,  was ,  to unite under one 
Sovereign England ,  Scotland ,  and Wales  ;  the two last of 
which countries had each a little king of its own ,  about whom 
the people were always quarrelling and fighting ,  and making 
a prodigious disturbance — a great deal more than he was 
worth .  In the course of King Edwards reign he was engaged ,  
besides ,  in a war with France .  To make these quarrels 
clearer ,  we will separate their histories and take them thus .  
Wales ,  first .  France ,  second .  Scotland ,  third .  

Llewellyn was the Prince of Wales .  He had been on the 
side of the Barons in the reign of the stupid old King ,  but 
had afterwards sworn allegiance to him .  When King Edward 
came to the throne ,  Llewellyn was required to swear allegiance 
to him also  ;  which he refused to do .  The King ,  being 
crowned and in his own dominions ,  three times more required 
Llewellyn to come and do homage  ;  and three times more 
Llewellyn said he would rather not .  He was going to be 
married to Eleanor de Montfort ,  a young lady of the family 
mentioned in the last reign  ;  and it chanced that this young 
lady ,  coming from France with her youngest brother ,  Emeric ,  
was taken by an English ship ,  and was ordered by the 
English King to be detained .  Upon this ,  the quarrel came 
to a head .  The King went ,  with his fleet ,  to the coast of 
Wales ,  where ,  so encompassing Llewellyn ,  that he could only 
take refuge in the bleak mountain region of Snowdon in 
which no provisions could reach him ,  he was soon starved 
into an apology ,  and into a ti - eaty of peace ,  and into paying 



EDWARD THE FIRST I45 

the expenses of the war .  The King ,  however ,  forgave him 
some of the hardest conditions of the treaty ,  and consented 
to his marriage .  And he now thought he had reduced 
Wales to obedience .  

But ,  the Welsh ,  although they were naturally a gentle ,  
quiet ,  pleasant people ,  who liked to receive strangers in their 
cottages among the mountains ,  and to set before them with 
free hospitality whatever they had to eat and drink ,  and to 
play to them on their harps ,  and sing their native ballads to 
them ,  were a people of great spirit when their blood was up .  
Englishmen ,  after this affair ,  began to be insolent in Wales ,  
and to assume the air of masters  ;  and the Welsh pride 
could not bear it .  Moreover ,  they believed in that unlucky 
old Merlin ,  some of whose unlucky old prophecies somebody 
always seemed doomed to remember when there was a chance 
of its doing harm  ;  and just at this time some blind old 
gentleman with a harp and a long white beard ,  who was 
an excellent person ,  but had become of an unknown age 
and tedious ,  burst out with a declaration that Merlin had 
predicted that when English money had become round ,  a 
Prince of Wales would be crowned in London .  Now ,  King 
Edward had recently forbidden the English penny to be cut 
into halves and quarters for halfpence and farthings ,  and had 
actually introduced a round coin  ;  therefore ,  the Welsh people 
said this was the time Merlin meant ,  and rose accordingly .  

King Edward had bought over Prince David ,  Llewellyns 
brother ,  by heaping favours upon him  ;  but he was the first 
to revolt ,  being perhaps troubled in his conscience .  One 
stormy night ,  he surprised the Castle of Hawarden ,  in posses -  
sion of which an English nobleman had been left  ;  killed the 
whole garrison ,  and carried off the nobleman a prisoner to 
Snowdon .  Upon this ,  the Welsh people rose like one man .  
King Edward ,  with his army ,  marching from Worcester to 
the Menai Strait ,  crossed it — near to where the wonderful 
tubular iron bridge now ,  in days so different ,  makes a passage 
for railway trains — by a bridge of boats that enabled forty 
men to march abreast .  He subdued the Island of Anglesea ,  
and sent his men forward to observe the enemy .  The sudden 
appearance of the Welsh created a panic among them ,  and 
they fell back to the bridge .  The tide had in the mean -  
time risen and separated the boats  ;  the Welsh pursuing 
them ,  they were driven into the sea ,  and there they sunk ,  in 
their heavy iron armour ,  by thousands .  After this victory 



146 A CHILDS HISTORY OF ENGLAND 

Llewellyn ,  helped by the severe winter - weather of Wales ,  
gained another battle  ;  hut the King ordering a portion of 
his English army to advance through South Wales ,  and catch 
him between two foes ,  and Llewellyn bravely turning to meet 
this new enemy ,  he was surprised and killed — very meanly ,  
for he was unarmed and defenceless .  His head was struck 
off and sent to London ,  where it was fixed upon the Tower ,  
encircled with a wreath ,  some say of ivy ,  some say of willow ,  
some say of silver ,  to make it look like a ghastly coin in 
ridicule of the prediction .  

David ,  however ,  still held out for six months ,  though 
eagerly sought after by the King ,  and hunted by his own 
countrymen .  One of them finally betrayed him with his wife 
and children .  He was sentenced to be hanged ,  drawn ,  and 
quartered  ;  and from that time this became the established 
punishment of Traitors in England— a punishment wholly 
without excuse ,  as being revolting ,  vile ,  and cruel ,  after its 
object is dead  ;  and which has no sense in it ,  as its only real 
degradation  ( and that nothing can blot out )  is to the country 
that permits on any consideration such abominable bar -  
barity .  

Wales was now subdued .  The Queen giving birth to a 
young prince in the Castle of Carnarvon ,  the King showed 
him to the Welsh people as their countryman ,  and called 
him Prince of Wales  ;  a title that has ever since been borne 
by the heir - apparent to the English throne— which that little 
Prince soon became ,  by the death of his elder brother .  The 
King did better things for the Welsh than that ,  by improving 
their laws and encouraging their trade .  Disturbances still 
took place ,  chiefly occasioned by the avarice and pride of the 
English Lords ,  on whom Welsh lands and castles had been 
bestowed  ;  but they were subdued ,  and the country never 
rose again .  There is a legend that to prevent the people 
from being incited to rebellion by the songs of their bards 
and harpers ,  Edward had them all put to death .  Some of 
them may have fallen among other men who held out against 
the King  ;  but this general slaughter is ,  I think ,  a fancy of 
the harpers themselves ,  who ,  I dare say ,  made a song about 
it many years afterwards ,  and sang it by the Welsh firesides 
until it came to be believed .  

The foreign war of the reign of Edward the First arose in 
this way .  The crews of two vessels ,  one a Norman ship ,  and 
the other an English ship ,  happened to go to the same place 



EDWARD THE FIRST 147 

in their boats to fill their casks with fresh water .  Being 
rough angry fellows ,  they began to quarrel ,  and then to 
fight— the English with their fists  ;  the Normans with their 
knives— and ,  in the fight ,  a Norman was killed .  The Norman 
crew ,  instead of revenging themselves upon those English 
sailors with whom they had quarrelled  ( who were too strong 
for them .  I suspect )  ,  took to their ship again in a great rage ,  
attacked the first English ship they met ,  laid hold of an 
unoffending merchant who happened to be on board ,  and 
brutally hanged him in the rigging of their own vessel with 
a dog at his  " feet .  This so enraged the English sailors that 
there was no restraining them  ;  and whenever ,  and wherever ,  
English sailors met Norman sailors ,  they fell upon each other 
tooth and nail .  The Irish and Dutch sailors took part with 
the English  ;  the French and Genoese sailors helped the 
Normans  ;  and thus the greater part of the mariners sailing 
over the sea became ,  in their way ,  as violent and raging as 
the sea itself when it is disturbed .  

King Edwards fame had been so high abroad that he had 
been chosen to decide a difference between France and another 
foreign power ,  and had lived upon the Continent three years .  
At first ,  neither he nor the French King Philip  ( the good 
Louis had been dead some time )  interfered in these quarrels  ;  
but when a fleet of eighty English ships engaged and utterly 
defeated a Norman fleet of two hundred ,  in a pitched battle 
fought round a ship at anchor ,  in which no quarter was 
given ,  the matter became too serious to be passed over .  King 
Edward ,  as Duke of Guienne .  was summoned to present 
himself before the King of France ,  at Paris ,  and answer for 
the damage done by his sailor subjects .  At first ,  he sent 
the Bishop of London as his representative ,  and then his 
brother Edmund ,  who was married to the French Queens 
mother .  I am afraid Edmund was an easy man ,  and allowed 
himself to be talked over by his charming relations ,  the 
French court ladies  ;  at all events ,  he was induced to give 
up his brothers dukedom for forty days — as a mere form ,  
the French King said ,  to satisfy his honour — and he was so 
very much astonished ,  when the time was out ,  to find that 
the French King had no idea of giving it up again ,  that I 
should not wonder if it hastened his death: which soon took 
place .  

King Edward was a King to win his foreign dukedom back 
again ,  if it could be won by energy and valour .  He raised 



148 A CHILD S HISTORY OF ENGLAND 

a large army ,  renounced his allegiance as Duke of Guienne ,  
and crossed the sea to carry war into France .  Before any 
important battle was fought ,  however ,  a truce was agreed 
upon for two years  ;  and in the course of that time ,  the 
Pope effected a reconciliation .  King Edward ,  who was now 
a widower ,  having lost his affectionate and good wife .  
Eleanor ,  married the French Kings sister ,  Margaret  ;  and 
the Prince of Wales was contracted to the French Kings 
daughter Isabella .  

Out of bad things ,  good things sometimes arise .  Out of 
this hanging of the innocent merchant ,  and the bloodshed 
and strife it caused ,  there came to be established one of the 
greatest powers that the English people now possess .  The 
preparations for the war being very expensive ,  and King 
Edward greatly wanting money ,  and being very arbitrary 
in his ways of raising it ,  some of the Barons began firmly to 
oppose him .  Two of them ,  in particular ,  Humphrey Bohun ,  
Earl of Hereford ,  and Roger Bigod ,  Earl of Norfolk ,  were so 
stout against him ,  that they maintained he had no right to 
command them to head his forces in Guienne ,  and flatly 
refused to go there .   " By Heaven ,  Sir Earl ,  "  said the King 
to the Earl of Hereford ,  in a great passion ,   "  you shall either 
go or be hanged !  "  By Heaven ,  Sir King ,  "  replied the 
Earl ,   " I will neither go nor yet will I be hanged !  "  and 
both he and the other Earl sturdily left the court ,  attended 
by many Lords .  The King tried every means of raising 
money .  He taxed the clergy ,  in spite of all the Pope said 
to the contrary  ;  and when they refused to pay ,  reduced them 
to submission ,  by saying Very well ,  then they had no claim 
upon the government for protection ,  and any man might 
plunder them who would — which a good many men were 
very ready to do ,  and very readily did ,  and which the clergy 
found too losing a game to be played at long .  He seized all 
the wool and leather in the hands of the merchants ,  promis -  
ing to pay for it some fine day  ;  and he set a tax upon the 
exportation of wool ,  which was so unpopular among the 
traders that it was called  " The evil toll .  "  But all would 
not do .  The Barons ,  led by those two great Earls ,  declared 
any taxes imposed without the consent of Parliament ,  
unlawful  ;  and the Parliament refused to impose taxes ,  until 
the King should confirm afresh the two Great Charters ,  and 
should solemnly declare in writing ,  that there was no power 
in the country to raise money from the people ,  evermore ,  



EDWARD THE FIRST 149 

lmt the power of Parliament representing all ranks of the 
people .  The King was very unwilling to diminish his own 
power by allowing this great privilege in the Parliament  ;  
but there was no help for it ,  and he at last complied .  We 
shall come to another King by - and - by ,  who might have 
saved his head from rolling off ,  if he had profited by this 
example .  

The people gained other benefits in Parliament from the 
good sense and wisdom of this King .  Many of the laws 
were much improved  ;  provision was made for the greater 
safety of travellers ,  and the apprehension of thieves and 
murderers  ;  the priests were prevented from holding too 
much land ,  and so becoming too powerful  ;  and Justices of 
the Peace were first appointed  ( though not at first under that 
name )  in various parts of the country .  

And now we come to Scotland ,  which was the great and 
lasting trouble of the reign of King Edward the First .  

About thirteen years after King Edwards coronation ,  
Alexander the Third ,  the King of Scotland ,  died of a fall 
from his horse .  He had been married to Margaret ,  King 
Edwards sister .  All their children being dead ,  the Scottish 
crown became the right of a young Princess only eight years 
old ,  the daughter of Eric ,  King of Norway ,  who had married 
a daughter of the deceased sovereign .  King Edward pro -  
posed ,  that the Maiden of Norway ,  as this Princess was 
called ,  should be engaged to be married to his eldest son  ;  
but ,  unfortunately ,  as she was coming over to England she 
fell sick ,  and landing on one of the Orkney Islands ,  died 
there .  A great commotion immediately began in Scotland ,  
where as many as thirteen noisy claimants to the vacant 
throne started up and made a general confusion .  

King Edward being much renowned for his sagacity and 
justice ,  it seems to have been agreed to refer the dispute to 
him .  He accepted the trust ,  and went ,  with an army ,  to 
the Border - land where England and Scotland joined .  There ,  
he called upon the Scottish gentlemen to meet him at the 
Castle of Norham ,  on the English side of the river Tweed  ;  
and to that Castle they came .  But ,  before he would take 
any step in the business ,  he required those Scottish gentle -  
men ,  one and all ,  to do homage to him as their superior 
Lord  ;  and when they hesitated ,  he said ,  By holy Edward ,  
whose  " jown I wear ,  I will have my rights ,  or I will die in 



150 A CHILD S HISTORY OF ENGLAND 

maintaining them  !  * The Scottish gentlemen ,  who had not 
expected this ,  were disconcerted ,  and asked for three weeks 
to think ahout it .  

At the end of the three weeks ,  another meeting took place ,  
on a green plain on the Scottish side of the river .  Of all 
the competitors for the Scottish throne ,  there were only two 
who had any real claim ,  in right of their near kindred to the 
Royal Family .  These were John Baliol and Robert Bruce  ;  
and the right was ,  I have no doubt ,  on the side of John 
Baliol .  At this particular meeting John Baliol was not 
present ,  but Robert Bruce was  ;  and on Robert Bruce being 
formally asked whether he acknowledged the King of Eng -  
land for his superior lord ,  he answered ,  plainly and distinctly ,  
Yes ,  he did .  Next day ,  John Baliol appeared ,  and said the 
same .  This point settled ,  some arrangements were made 
for inquiring into their titles .  

The inquiry occupied a pretty long time — more than a 
year .  While it was going on ,  King Edward took the oppor -  
tunity of making a journey through Scotland ,  and calling 
upon the Scottish people of all degrees to acknowledge them -  
selves his vassals ,  or be imprisoned until they did .  In the 
meanwhile .  Commissioneis were appointed to conduct the 
inquiry ,  a Parliament was held at Berwick about it .  the two 
claimants were heard at full length ,  and there was a vast 
amount of talking .  At last ,  in the great hall of the Castle 
of Berwick ,  the King gave judgment in favour of John 
Baliol : who ,  consenting to receive his crown by the King 
of Englands favour and permission ,  was crowned at Scone ,  
in an old stone chair which had been used for ages in the 
abbey there ,  at the coronations of Scottish Kings .  Then ,  
King Edward caused the great seal of Scotland ,  used since 
the late Kings death ,  to be broken in four pieces ,  and 
placed in the English Treasury  ;  and considered that he now 
had Scotland  ( according to the common saying )  under his 
thumb .  

Scotland had a strong will of its own yet .  however .  King 
Edward ,  determined that the Scottish King should not forget 
he was his vassal ,  summoned him repeatedly to come and 
defend himself and his Judges before the English Parliament 
when appeals from the decisions of Scottish courts of justice 
were being heard .  At length .  John Baliol ,  who had no 
great heart of his own ,  had so much heart put into him by 
the brave spirit of the Scottish people ,  who took this as a 



EDWARD THE FIRST 151 

national insult ,  that he refused to come any more .  There -  
upon ,  the King further required him to help him in his war 
abroad  ( which was then in progress )  ,  and to give up ,  as secu -  
rity for his good behaviour in future ,  the three strong Scot -  
tish Castles of Jedburgh ,  Roxburgh ,  and Berwick .  Nothing 
of this being done : on the contrary ,  the Scottish people 
concealing their King among their mountains in the High -  
lands and showing a determination to resist  ;  Edward 
marched to Berwick with an army of thirty thousand foot ,  
and four thousand horse  ;  took the Castle and slew its whole 
garrison ,  and the inhabitants of the town as well — men ,  
women ,  and children .  Lokd Warrenne ,  Earl of Surrey ,  
then went on to the Castle of Dunbar ,  before which a battle 
was fought ,  and the whole Scottish army defeated with 
great slaughter .  The victory being complete ,  the Earl of 
Surrey was left as guardian of Scotland  ;  the principal offices 
in that kingdom were given to Englishmen  ;  the more 
powerful Scottish Nobles were obliged to come and live in 
England  ;  the Scottish crown and sceptre were brought 
away  ;  and even the old stone chair was carried off and 
placed in Westminster Abbey ,  where you may see it now .  
Baliol had the Tower of London lent him for a residence ,  
with permission to range about within a circle of twenty 
miles .  Three years afterwards he was allowed to go to 
Normandy ,  where he had estates ,  and where he passed the 
remaining six years of his life : far more happily ,  I dare say ,  
than he had lived for a long while in angry Scotland .  

Now ,  there was ,  in the West of Scotland ,  a gentleman of 
small fortune ,  named William Wallace ,  the second son of 
a Scottish knight .  He was a man of great size and great 
strength  ;  he was very brave and daring  ;  when he spoke to 
a body of his countrymen ,  he could rouse them in a wonder -  
ful manner by the power of his burning words  ;  he loved 
Scotland dearly ,  and he hated England with his utmost 
might .  The domineering conduct of the English ,  who now 
held the places of trust in Scotland made them as intolerable 
to the proud Scottish people as they had been ,  under similar 
circumstances ,  to the Welsh  ;  and no man in all Scotland 
regarded them with so much smothered rage as William 
Wallace .  One day ,  an Englishman in office ,  little knowing 
what he was ,  affronted Mm .  Wallace instantly struck him 
dead ,  and taking refuge among the rocks and hills ,  and 
there joining with his countryman ,  Sir William Douglas ,  



152 A CHILDS HISTORY OF ENGLAND 

who was also in arms against King Edward ,  became the 
most resolute and undaunted champion of a people struggling 
for their independence that ever lived upon the earth .  

The English Guardian of the Kingdom fled before him ,  
and ,  thus encouraged ,  the Scottish people revolted every -  
where ,  and fell upon the English without mercy .  The Earl 
of Surrey ,  by the Kings commands ,  raised all the power of 
the Border - counties ,  and two English armies poured into 
Scotland .  Only one Chief ,  in the face of those armies ,  stood 
by Wallace ,  who ,  with a force of forty thousand men ,  
awaited the invaders at a place on the river Forth ,  within 
two miles of Stirling .  Across the river there was only one 
poor wooden bridge ,  called the bridge of Kildean— so narrow ,  
that but two men could cross it abreast .  With his eyes 
upon this bridge ,  Wallace posted the greater part of his 
men among some rising grounds ,  and waited calmly .  When 
the English army came up on the opposite bank of the river ,  
messengers were sent forward to offer terms .  Wallace sent 
them back with a defiance ,  in the name of the freedom of 
Scotland .  Some of the officers of the Earl of Surrey in 
command of the English ,  with their eyes also on the bridge ,  
advised him to be discreet and not hasty .  He ,  however ,  
urged to immediate battle by some other officers ,  and particu -  
larly by Cressingham ,  King Edwards treasurer ,  and a rash 
man ,  gave the word of command to advance .  One thousand 
English crossed the bridge ,  two abreast  ;  the Scottish troops 
were as motionless as stone images .  Two thousand English 
crossed  ;  three thousand ,  four thousand ,  five .  Not a fea her ,  
all this time ,  had been seen to stir among the Scottish 
bonnets .  Now ,  they all fluttered .   " Forward ,  one party ,  
to the foot of the Bridge !  "  cried Wallace ,   "  and let no 
more English cross  !  The rest ,  down with me on the five 
thousand who have come over ,  and cut them all to pieces .  
It was done ,  in the sight of the whole remainder of the 
English army ,  who could give no help .  Cressingham him -  
self was killed ,  and the Scotch made whips for their horses 

of his skin .    "  .   ,  ,  

Kino -  Edward was abroad at this time ,  and during the 
successes on the Scottish side which followed and which 
enabled bold Wallace to win the whole country back again ,  
and even to ravage the English borders .  But after a few 
winter months ,  the King returned ,  and took the held with 
more than his usual energy .  One night ,  when a kick from 



EDWARD THE FIRST 1 53 

his horse as they both lay on the ground together broke two 
of his ribs ,  and a cry arose that he was killed ,  he leaped 
into his saddle ,  regardless of the pain he suffered ,  and rode 
through the camp .  Day then appearing ,  he gave the word 
 ( still ,  of course ,  in that bruised and aching state )  Forward  !  
and led his army on to near Falkirk ,  where the Scottish 
forces were seen drawn up on some stony ground ,  behind 
a morass .  Here ,  he defeated Wallace ,  and killed fifteen 
thousand of his men .  With the shattered remainder ,  Wallace 
drew back to Stirling  ;  but ,  being pursued ,  set fire to the 
town that it might give no help to the English ,  and escaped .  
The inhabitants of Perth afterwards set fire to their houses 
for the same reason ,  and the King ,  unable to find provisions ,  
was forced to withdraw his army .  

Another Robert Bruce ,  the grandson of him who had 
disputed the Scottish crown with Baliol ,  was now in arms 
against the King  ( that elder Bruce being dead )  ,  and also 
John Comyn ,  Baliols nephew .  These two young men might 
agree in opposing Edward ,  but could agree in nothing else ,  
as they were rivals for the throne of Scotland .  Probably it 
was because they knew this ,  and knew what troubles must 
arise even if they could hope to get the better of the great 
English King ,  that the principal Scottish people applied to 
the Pope for his interference .  The Pope ,  on the principle 
of losing nothing for want of trying to get it ,  very coolly 
claimed that Scotland belonged to him  ;  but this was a little 
too much ,  and the Parliament in a friendly manner told 
him so .  

In the spring time of the year one thousand three hundred 
and three ,  the King sent Sir John Segrave ,  whom he made 
Governor of Scotland ,  with twenty thousand men ,  to reduce 
the rebels .  Sir John was not as careful as he should have 
been ,  but encamped at Rosslyn ,  near Edinburgh ,  with his 
army divided into three parts .  The Scottish forces saw their 
advantage  ;  fell on each part separately  ;  defeated each  ;  and 
killed all the prisoners .  Then ,  came the King himself once 
more ,  as soon as a great army could be raised  ;  he passed 
through the whole north of Scotland ,  laying waste what -  
soever came in his way  ;  and he took up his winter quartern 
at Dunfermline .  The Scottish cause now looked so hopeless ,  
that Comyn and the other nobles made submission and 
received their pardons .  Wallace alone stood out .  He was 
invited to surrender ,  though on no distinct pledge that his 



154 A GUILDS HISTORY OF ENGLAND 

life should be spared  ;  but he still defied the ireful King ,  
and lived among the steep crags of the Highland glens ,  
where the eagles made their nests ,  and where the mountain 
torrents roared ,  and the white snow was deep ,  and the bitter 
winds blew round his unsheltered head ,  as he lay through 
many a pitch - dark night wrapped up in his plaid .  Nothing 
could break his spirit  ;  nothing could lower his courage  ;  
nothing could induce him to forget or to forgive his countrys 
wrongs .  Even when the Castle of Stirling ,  which had long 
held out ,  was besieged by the King with every kind of mili -  
tary engine then in use  ;  even when the lead upon cathe -  
dral roofs was taken clown to help to make them  ;  even 
when the King ,  though an old man ,  commanded in the 
siege as if he were a youth ,  being so resolved to conquer  ;  
even when the brave garrison  ( then found with amazement 
to be not two hundred people ,  including several ladies )  were 
starved and beaten out and were made to submit on their 
knees ,  and with every form of disgrace that could aggravate 
their sufferings  ;  even then ,  when there was not a ray of 
hope in Scotland ,  William Wallace was as proud and firm 
as if he had beheld the powerful and relentless Edward 
lying dead at his feet .  

Who betrayed William Wallace in the end ,  is not quite 
certain .  That he was betrayed— probably by an attendant 
—is too true .  He was taken to the Castle of Dumbarton ,  
under Sir John Menteith ,  and thence to London ,  where the 
great fame of his bravery and resolution attracted immense 
concourses of people to behold him .  He was tried in 
Westminster Hall ,  with a crown of laurel on his head— it is 
supposed because he was reported to have said that he ought 
to wear ,  or that he would wear ,  a crown there — and was 
found guilty as a robber ,  a murderer ,  and a traitor .  What 
they called a robber  ( lie said to those who tried him )  he 
was ,  because he had taken spoil from the Kings men .  What 
they called a murderer ,  he was ,  because he had slain an 
insolent Englishman .  What they called a traitor ,  he was 
not ,  for he had never sworn allegiance to the King ,  and had 
ever scorned to do it .  He was dragged at the tails of horses 
to West Smithfield ,  and there hanged on a high gallows ,  
torn open before he was dead ,  beheaded ,  and quartered .  His 
head was set upon a pole on London Bridge ,  his right arm 
was sent to Newcastle ,  his left arm to Berwick ,  his legs to 
Perth and Aberdeen .  But ,  if King Edward had had his 



EDWARD THE FIRST 155 

body cut into inches ,  and had sent every separate inch into 
a separate town ,  he could not have dispersed it half so far 
and wide as his fame .  Wallace will be remembered in 
songs and stories ,  while there are songs and stories in the 
English tongue ,  and Scotland will hold him dear while her 
lakes and mountains last .  

Released from this dreaded enemy ,  the King made a fairer 
plan of Government for Scotland ,  divided the offices of 
honour among Scottish gentlemen and English gentlemen ,  
forgave past offences ,  and thought ,  in his old age ,  that his 
work was done .  

But he deceived himself .  Comyn and Bruce conspired ,  
and made an appointment to meet at Dumfries ,  in the 
church of the Minorites .  There is a story that Comyn was 
false to Bruce ,  and had informed against him to the King  ;  
that Bruce was warned of his danger and the necessity of 
flight ,  by receiving ,  one night as he sat at supper ,  from his 
friend the Earl of Gloucester ,  twelve pennies and a pair of 
spurs  ;  that as he was riding angrily to keep his appoint -  
ment  ( through a snow - storm ,  with his horses shoes reversed 
that he might not be tracked )  ,  he met an evil - looking serv -  
ing man ,  a messenger of Comyn ,  whom he killed ,  and con -  
cealed in whose dress he found letters that proved Comyns 
treachery .  However this may be ,  they were likely enough 
to quarrel in any case ,  being hot - headed rivals  ;  and ,  what -  
ever they quarrelled about ,  they certainly did quarrel in the 
church where they met ,  and Bruce drew his dagger and 
stabbed Comyn ,  who fell upon the pavement .  When Bruce 
came out ,  pale and disturbed ,  the friends who were waiting 
for him asked what was the matter?  " I think I have 
killed Comyn ,  "  said he .   "  You only think so? "  returned 
one of them  ;   "  I will make sure  !   "  and going into the 
church ,  and finding him alive ,  stabbed him again and again .  
Knowing that the King would never forgive this new deed 
of violence ,  the party then declared Bruce King of Scotland : 
got him crowned at Scone — without the chair  ;  and set up 
the rebellious standard once again .  

When the King heard of it he kindled with fiercer anger 
than he had ever shown yet .  He caused the Prince of 
Wales and two hundred and seventy of the young nobility 
to l ) e knighted — the trees in the Temple Gardens were cut 
down to make room for their tents ,  and they watched their 
armour all night ,  according to the old usage : some in the 



156 A CHILDS HISTORY OF ENGLAND 

Temple Church : some in Westminster Abbey — and at the 
public Feast which then took place ,  he swore ,  by Heaven ,  
and by two swans covered with gold network which his min -  
strels placed upon the table ,  that he would avenge the death 
of Comyn ,  and would punish the false Bruce .  And before 
all the company ,  he charged the Prince his son ,  in case that 
he should die before accomplishing his vow ,  not to bury him 
until it was fulfilled .  Next morning the Prince and the rest 
of the young Knights rode away to the Border - country to 
join the English army  ;  and the King ,  now weak and sick ,  
followed in a horse - litter .  

Bruce ,  after losing a battle and undergoing many dangers 
and much misery ,  fled to Ireland ,  where he lay concealed 
through the winter .  That winter ,  Edward passed in hunt -  
ing down and executing Bruces relations and adherents ,  
sparing neither youth nor age ,  and showing no touch of 
pity or sign of mercy .  In the following spring ,  Bruce re -  
appeared and gained some victories .  In these frays ,  both 
sides were grievously cruel .  For instance —Bruces two 
brothers ,  being taken captives desperately wounded ,  were 
ordered by the King to instant execution .  Bruces friend 
Sir John Douglas ,  taking his own Castle of Douglas out of 
the hands of an English Lord ,  roasted the dead bodies of 
the slaughtered garrison in a great fire made of every mov -  
able within it  ;  which dreadful cookery his men called the 
Douglas Larder .  Bruce ,  still successful ,  however ,  drove 
the Earl of Pembroke and the Earl of Gloucester into the 
Castle of Ayr and laid siege to it .  

The King ,  who had been laid up all the winter ,  but had 
directed the army from his sick - bed ,  now advanced to Car -  
lisle ,  and there ,  causing the litter in which he had travelled 
to l^e placed in the Cathedral as an offering to Heaven ,  
mounted his horse once more ,  and for the last time .  He 
was now sixty - nine years old ,  and had reigned thirty - five 
years .  He was so ill ,  that in four days he could go no more 
than six miles  ;  still ,  even at that pace ,  he went on and 
resolutely kept his face towards the Border .  At length ,  he 
lay down at the village of Burgh - upon - Sands : and there ,  
telling those around him to impress upon the Prince that 
he was to remember his fathers vow ,  and was never to rest 
until he had thoroughly subdued Scotland ,  he yielded up his 
last breath .  



CHAPTER XVII 

ENGLAND UNDER EDWARD THE SECUND 

King Edward the Second ,  the first Prince of Wales ,  was 
twenty - three years old when his father died .  There was a 
certain favourite of his ,  a young man from Gascony ,  named 
Piers Gaveston ,  of whom his father had so much dis -  
approved that he had ordered him out of England ,  and had 
made his son swear by the side of his sick - bed ,  never to 
bring him back .  But ,  the Prince no sooner found himself 
King ,  than he broke his oath ,  as so many other Princes and 
Kings did  ( they were far too ready to take oaths )  ,  and sent 
for his dear friend immediately .  

Now ,  this same Gaveston was handsome enough ,  but was 
a reckless ,  insolent ,  audacious fellow .  He was detested by 
the proud English Lords : not only because he had such 
power over the King ,  and made the Court such a dissipated 
place ,  but ,  also ,  because he could ride better than they at 
tournaments ,  and was used ,  in his impudence ,  to cut very 
bad jokes on them  ;  calling one ,  the old hog  ;  another ,  Ho -  
stage - player  ;  another ,  the Jew  ;  another ,  the black dog of 
Ardenne .  This was as poor wit as need be ,  but it made 
those Lords veiy wroth  ;  and the surly Earl of Warwick ,  
who was the black dog ,  swore that the time should come 
when Piers Gaveston should feel the black dogs teeth .  

It was not come yet ,  however ,  nor did it seem to be 
coming .  The King made him Earl of Cornwall ,  and gave 
him vast riches  ;  and ,  when the King went over to France 
to marry the French Princess ,  Isabella ,  daughter of Philip 
le Bel : who was said to be the most beautiful woman in 
the world: he made Gaveston ,  Regent of the Kingdom .  
His splendid marriage - ceremony in the Church of Our Lady 
at Boulogne ,  where there were four Kings and three Queens 
present  ( quite a pack of Court Cards ,  for I dare say the 
Knaves were not wanting )  ,  being over ,  he seemed to care 
littl "  or nothing for his beautiful wife ;  but was wild with 
impatience to meet Gaveston nan in .  



158 A CHILDS HISTORY OF ENGLAND 

When lie landed at home ,  he paid no attention to anybody 
else ,  but ran into the favourites arms before a great con -  
course of people ,  and hugged him ,  and kissed him ,  and 
called him his brother .  At the coronation which soon 
followed ,  Gaveston was the richest and brightest of all 
the glittering company there ,  and had the honour of 
carrying the crown .  This made the proud Lords fiercer 
than ever  ;  the people ,  too ,  despised the favourite ,  and 
would never call him Earl of Cornwall ,  however much 
he complained to the King and asked him to punish 
them for not doing so ,  but persisted in styling him plain 
Piers Gaveston .  

The Barons were so unceremonious with the King in 
giving him to understand that they would not bear this 
favourite ,  that the King was obliged to send him out of 
the country .  The favourite himself was made to take an 
oath  ( more oaths  !  )  that he would never come back ,  and the 
Barons supposed him to be banished in disgrace ,  until they 
heard that he was appointed Governor of Ireland .  Even 
this was not enough for the besotted King ,  who brought 
him home again in a years time ,  and not only disgusted 
the Court and the people by his doting folly ,  but offended 
his beautiful wife too ,  who never liked him afterwards .  

He had now the old Royal want — of money— and the 
Barons had the new power of positively refusing to let him 
raise any .  He summoned a Parliament at York  ;  the 
Barons refused to make one ,  while the favourite was near 
him .  He summoned another Parliament at Westminster ,  
and sent Gaveston away .  Then ,  the Barons came ,  com -  
pletely armed ,  and appointed a committee of themselves to 
correct abuses in the state and in the Kings household .  
He got some money on these conditions ,  and directly set 
off with Gaveston to the Border - country ,  where they spent 
it in idling away the time ,  and feasting ,  while Bruce made 
ready to drive the English out of Scotland .  For ,  though 
the old King had even made this poor weak son of his 
swear  ( as some say )  that he would not bury his bones ,  but 
would have them boiled clean in a caldron ,  and carried 
before the English army until Scotland was entirely subdued ,  
the second Edward was so unlike the first that Bruce gained 
strength and power every day .  

The committee of Nobles ,  after some months of deliberation ,  
ordained that the King should henceforth call a Parliament 



EDWAKD THE SECOND 1 59 

together ,  once every year ,  and even twice if necessary ,  instead 
of summoning it only when he chose .  Further ,  that Gaveston 
should once more be banished ,  and ,  this time ,  on pain of 
death if he ever came back .  The Kings tears were of no 
avail  ;  he was obliged to send his favourite to Flanders .  As 
soon as he had done so ,  however ,  he dissolved the Parliament ,  
with the low cunning of a mere fool ,  and set off to the North 
of England ,  thinking to get an army about him to oppose 
the Nobles .  And once again he brought Gaveston home ,  
and heaped upon him all the riches and titles of which the 
Barons had deprived him .  

The Lords saw ,  now ,  that there was nothing for it but to 
put the favourite to death .  They could have done so ,  legally ,  
according to the terms of his banishment  ;  but they did so ,  
I am sorry to say ,  in a shabby manner .  Led by the Earl 
of Lancaster ,  the Kings cousin ,  they first of all attacked the 
King and Gaveston at Newcastle .  They had time to escape 
by sea ,  and the mean King ,  having his precious Gaveston 
with him ,  was quite content to leave his lovely wife behind .  
When they were comparatively safe ,  they separated  ;  the 
King went to York to collect a force of soldiers  ;  and the 
favourite shut himself up ,  in the meantime ,  in Scarborough 
Castle overlooking the sea .  This was what the Barons 
wanted .  They knew that the Castle could not hold out  ;  
they attacked it ,  and made Gaveston surrender .  He 
delivered himself up to the Earl of Pembroke — that Lord 
whom he had called the Jew — on the Earls pledging his 
faith and knightly word ,  that no harm should happen to 
him and no violence be done him .  

Now ,  it was agreed with Gaveston that he should be 
taken to the Castle of Wallingford ,  and there kept in 
honourable custody .  They travelled as far as Dedington ,  
near Banbury ,  where ,  in the Castle of that place ,  they 
stopped for a night to rest .  Whether the Earl of Pembroke 
left his prisoner there ,  knowing what would happen ,  or 
really left him thinking no harm ,  and only going  ( as he 
pretended )  to visit his wife ,  the Countess ,  who was in the 
neighbourhood ,  is no great matter now  ;  in any case ,  he 
was bound as an honourable gentleman to protect his 
prisoner ,  and he did not do it .  In the morning ,  while 
the favourite was yet in bed ,  he was required to dress 
himself and come down into the court - yard .  He did so 
without any mistrust ,  but started and turned pale when 



l6o A CHILDS HISTORY OF ENGLAND 

he found it full of strange armed men .   "  I think you 
know me? "  said their leader ,  also armed from head to 
foot .  V I am the black dog of Ardenne  !   "  

The time was come when Piers Gaveston was to feel the 
black dogs teeth indeed .  They set him on a mule ,  and 
carried him ,  in mock state and with military music ,  to the 
black dogs kennel— Warwick Castle— where a hasty council ,  
composed of some great noblemen ,  considered what should 
be done with him .  Some were for sparing him ,  but one 
loud voice— it was the black dogs bark ,  I dare say— sounded 
through the Castle Hall ,  uttering these words:  " You have 
the fox in your power .  Let him go now ,  and you must 
hunt him again .  "  

They sentenced him to death .  He threw himself at the 
feet of the Earl of Lancaster— the old hog— but the old hog 
was as savage as the dog .  He was taken out upon the 
pleasant road ,  leading from Warwick to Coventry ,  where 
the beautiful river Avon ,  by which ,  long afterwards ,  
William Shakespeare was born and now lies buried ,  
sparkled in the bright landscape of the beautiful May - day : 
and there they struck off his wretched head ,  and stained 
the dust with his blood .  

When the King heard of this black deed ,  in his grief and 
rasye he denounced relentless war against his Barons ,  and 
botfi sides were in arms for half a year .  But ,  it then 
became necessary for them to join their forces against 
Bruce ,  who had used the time well while they were divided ,  
and had now a great power in Scotland .  

Intelligence was brought that Bruce was then besieging 
Stirling Castle ,  and that the Governor had been obliged to 
pledge himself to surrender it ,  unless he should be relieved 
before a certain day .  Hereupon ,  the King ordered the nobles 
and their fighting - men to meet him at Berwick  ;  but ,  the 
nobles cared so little for the King ,  and so neglected the 
summons ,  and lost time ,  that only on the day before that 
appointed for the surrender ,  did the King find himself at 
Stirling ,  and even then with a smaller force than he had 
expected .  However ,  he had ,  altogether ,  a hundred thousand 
men .  and Bruce had not more  " than forty thousand  ;  but ,  
Bruces army was strongly posted in three square columns ,  
on the ground lying between the Burn or Brook of Bannock 
and the walls of Stirling Castle .  

On the very evening ,  when the King came up ,  Bruce did 



EDWARD THE SECOND l6l 

a brave act that encouraged his men .  He was seen by a 
certain Henry de Bohun ,  an English Knight ,  riding about 
before his army on a little horse ,  with a light battle - axe in 
his hand ,  and a crown of gold on his head .  This English 
Knight ,  who was mounted on a strong war - horse ,  cased in 
steel ,  strongly armed ,  and able  ( as he thought )  to overthrow 
Bruce by crushing him with his mere weight ,  set spurs to 
his great charger ,  rode on him ,  and made a thrust at him 
with his heavy spear .  Bruce parried the thrust ,  and with 
one blow of his battle - axe split his skull .  

The Scottish men did not forget this ,  next day when the 
battle raged .  Eandolph ,  Bruces valiant Nephew ,  rode ,  with 
the small body of men he commanded ,  into such a host of 
the English ,  all shining in polished armour in the sunlight ,  
that they seemed to be swallowed up and lost ,  as if they 
had plunged into the sea .  But ,  they fought so well ,  and 
did such dreadful execution ,  that the English staggered .  
Then came Bruce himself upon them ,  with all the rest of 
his arm} 7  .  While they were thus hard pressed and amazed ,  
there appeared upon the hills what they supposed to be 
a new Scottish army ,  but what were really only the camp 
followers ,  in number fifteen thousand : whom Bruce had 
taught to show themselves at that place and time .  The 
Earl of Gloucester ,  commanding the English horse ,  made 
a last rush to change the fortune of the day  ;  but Bruce 
 ( like Jack the Giant - killer in the story )  had had pits dug 
in the ground ,  and covered over with turfs and stakes .  
Into these ,  as they gave way beneath the weight of the 
horses ,  riders and horses rolled by hundreds .  The English 
were completely routed  ;  all their treasure ,  stores ,  and 
engines ,  were taken by the Scottish men  ;  so many waggons 
and other wheeled vehicles were seized ,  that it is related 
that they would have reached ,  if they had been drawn out 
in a line ,  one hundred and eighty miles .  The fortunes of 
Scotland were ,  for the time ,  completely changed  ;  and never 
was a battle won ,  more famous upon Scottish ground ,  than 
this great battle of Bannockeurn .  

Plague and famine succeeded in England  ;  and still the 
powerless King and his disdainful Lords were always in 
contention .  Some of the turbulent chiefs of Ireland made 
proposals to Bruce ,  to accept the rule of that country .  He 
sent his brother Edward to them ,  who was crowned King of 
Ireland .  He afterwards went himself to help bis brotber in 

I .  T 



1 62 A CHILDS HISTORY OF ENGLAND 

his Irish wars ,  but his brother was defeated in the end and 
killed .  Robert Bruce ,  returning to Scotland ,  still increased 
his strength there .  

As the Kings ruin had begun in a favourite ,  so it seemed 
likely to end in one .  He was too poor a creature to rely at 
all upon himself ;  and his new favourite was one Hugh le 
Despenser ,  the son of a gentleman of ancient family .  Hugh 
was handsome and brave ,  but he was the favourite of a 
weak King ,  whom no man cared a rush for ,  and that was 
a dangerous place to hold .  The Nobles leagued against him ,  
because the King liked him  ;  and they laj r in wait ,  both 
for his ruin and his fathers .  Now ,  the King had married 
him to the daughter of the late Earl of Gloucester ,  and had 
given both him and his father great possessions in Wales .  
In their endeavours to extend these ,  they gave violent 
offence to an angry Welsh gentleman ,  named John de 
Mowbray ,  and to divers other angiy Welsh gentlemen ,  
who resorted to arms ,  took their castles ,  and seized their 
estates .  The Earl of Lancaster had first placed the favourite 
 ( who was a poor relation of his own )  at Court ,  and he 
considered his own dignity offended by the preference he 
received and the honours he acquired  ;  so he ,  and the 
Barons who were his friends ,  joined the Welshmen ,  marched 
on London ,  and sent a message to the King demanding to 
have the favourite and his father banished .  At first ,  the 
King unaccountably took it into his head to be spirited ,  and 
to send them a bold reply  ;  but when they quartered them -  
selves around Holborn and Clerkenwell ,  and went down ,  
armed ,  to the Parliament at Westminster ,  he gave way ,  and 
complied with their demands .  

His turn of triumph came sooner than he expected .  It 
arose out of an accidental circumstance .  The beautiful 
Queen happening to be travelling ,  came one night to one of 
the royal castles ,  and demanded to be lodged and entertained 
there until morning .  The governor of this castle ,  who was 
one of the enraged lords ,  was away ,  and in his absence ,  his 
wife refused admission to the Queen  ;  a scuffle took place 
among the common men on either side ,  and some of the 
royal attendants were killed .  The people ,  who cared nothing 
for the King ,  were very angry that their beautiful Queen 
should be thus rudely treated in her own dominions : and 
the King ,  taking advantage of this feeling ,  besieged the 
castle ,  took it .  and then called the two Despensers home .  



EDWARD THE SECOND 1 63 

Upon this ,  the confederate lords and the Welshmen went 
over to Bruce .  The King encountered them at Borough -  
bridge ,  gained the victory ,  and took a number of distinguished 
prisoners  ;  among them ,  the Earl of Lancaster ,  now an old 
man ,  upon whose destruction he was resolved .  This Earl 
was taken to his own castle of Pontefract ,  and there tried 
and found guilty by an unfair court appointed for the 
purpose  ;  he was not even allowed to speak in his own 
defence .  He was insulted ,  pelted ,  mounted on a starved 
pony without saddle or bridle ,  carried out ,  and beheaded .  
Eight - and - twenty knights were hanged ,  drawn ,  and quartered .  
When the King had despatched this bloody work ,  and had 
made a fresh and a long truce with Bruce ,  he took the 
Despensers into greater favour than ever ,  and made the 
father Earl of Winchester .  

One prisoner ,  and an important one ,  who was taken at 
Boroughbridge ,  made his escape ,  however ,  and turned the 
tide against the King .  This was Roger Mortimer ,  always 
resolutely opposed to him ,  who was sentenced to death ,  and 
placed for safe custody in the Tower of London .  He treated 
his guards to a quantity of wine into which he had put 
a sleeping potion  ;  and ,  when they were insensible ,  broke out 
of his dungeon ,  got into a kitchen ,  climbed up the chimney ,  
let himself down from the roof of the building with a rope -  
ladder ,  passed the sentries ,  got down to the river ,  and made 
away in a boat to where servants and horses were waiting 
for him .  He finally escaped to France ,  where Charles le 
Bel ,  the brother of the beautiful Queen ,  was King .  Charles 
sought to quarrel with the King of England ,  on pretence of 
his not having come to do him homage at his coronation .  
It was proposed that the beautiful Queen should go over to 
arrange the dispute  ;  she went ,  and wrote home to the 
King ,  that as he was sick and could not come to France 
himself ,  perhaps it would be better to send over the 
young Prince ,  their son ,  who was only twelve years old .  
who could do homage to her brother in his stead ,  and 
in whose company she would immediately return .  The 
King sent him : but ,  both he and the Queen remained at 
the French Court ,  and Roger Mortimer became the Queens 
lover .  

When the King wrote ,  again and again ,  to the Queen to 
come home ,  she did not reply that she despised him too 
much to live with him any more  ( which was the truth )  .  



164 A CHILDS HISTORY OF ENGLAND 

but said she was afraid of the two Despensers .  In short .  
her design was to overthrow the favourites power ,  and 
the Kings power ,  such as it was ,  and invade England .  
Having obtained a French force of two thousand men ,  
and being joined by all the English exiles then in France ,  
she landed ,  within a year ,  at Orewell .  in Suffolk ,  where 
she was immediately joined by the Earls of Kent and 
Norfolk ,  the Kings two brothers  ;  by other powerful noble -  
men  ;  and lastly ,  by the first English general who was 
despatched to check her: who went over to her with all 
his men .  The people of London ,  receiving these tidings ,  
would do nothing for the King ,  but broke open the Tower ,  
let out all his prisoners ,  and threw up their caps and 
hurrahed for the beautiful Queen .  

The King ,  with his two favourites ,  fled to Bristol ,  where 
he left old Despenser in charge of the town and castle ,  while 
he went on with the son to Wales .  The Bristol men being 
opposed to the King ,  and it being impossible to hold the 
town with enemies everywhere within the Avails ,  Despenser 
yielded it up on the third day ,  and was instantly brought to 
trial for having traitorously influenced what was called  " the 
Kings mind  "  — though I doubt if the King ever had any .  
He was a venerable old man ,  upwards of ninety years of age ,  
but his age gained no respect or mercy .  He was hanged ,  
torn open while he was yet alive ,  cut up into pieces ,  and 
thrown to the dogs .  His son was soon taken ,  tried at 
Hereford before the same judge on a long series of foolish 
charges ,  found guilty ,  and hanged upon a gallows fifty feet 
high ,  with a chaplet of nettles round his head .  His poor 
old father and he were innocent enough of any worse crimes 
than the crime of having been friends of a King ,  on whom ,  
as a mere man ,  they would never have deigned to cast a 
favourable look .  It is a bad crime ,  I know ,  and leads to 
worse  ;  but ,  many lords and gentlemen— I even think 
some ladies ,  too ,  if I recollect right — have committed it in 
England ,  who have neither been given to the dogs ,  nor 
hanged up fifty feet high .  

The wretched King was running here and there ,  all this 
time ,  and never getting anywhere in particular ,  until he 
gave himself up ,  and was taken off to Kenilworth Castle .  
When he was safely lodged there ,  the Queen went to London 
and met the Parliament .  And the Bishop of Hereford ,  who 
was the most skilful of her friends ,  said .  What was to be 



EDWARD THE SECOND 165 

done now? Here was an imbecile ,  indolent ,  miserable 
King upon the throne  ;  wouldnt it be better to take him 
off ,  and put his son there instead ? I dont know whether 
the Queen really pitied him at this pass ,  but she began to 
cry  ;  so ,  the Bishop said .  Well ,  my Lords and Gentlemen ,  
what do you think ,  upon the whole ,  of sending down to 
Kenilworth ,  and seeing if His Majesty  ( God bless him ,  and 
forbid we should depose him  !  )  wont resign ? 

My Lords and Gentlemen thought it a good notion ,  so 
a deputation of them went down to Kenilworth  ;  and there 
the King came into the great hall of the Castle ,  commonly 
dressed in a poor black gown  ;  and when he saw a certain 
bishop among them ,  fell down ,  poor feeble - headed man ,  and 
made a wretched spectacle of himself .  Somebody lifted him 
up ,  and then Sir William Teussel ,  the Speaker of the 
House of Commons ,  almost frightened him to death by 
making him a tremendous speech to the effect that he was 
no longer a King ,  and that everybody renounced allegiance 
to him .  After which ,  Sir Thomas Blount ,  the Steward of 
the Household ,  nearly finished him ,  by coming forward and 
breaking his white wand — which was a ceremony only 
performed at a Kings death .  Being asked in this pressing 
manner what he thought of resigning ,  the King said he 
thought it was the best thing he could do .  So ,  he did it ,  
and they proclaimed his son next day .  

I wish I could close his history by saying that he lived 
a harmless life in the Castle and the Castle gardens at 
Kenilworth ,  many years — that he had a favourite ,  and plenty 
to eat and drink — and ,  having that ,  wanted nothing .  But he 
was shamefully humiliated .  He was outraged ,  and slighted ,  
and had dirty water from ditches given him to shave with ,  
and wept and said he would have clean warm water ,  and 
was altogether veiy miserable .  He was moved from this 
castle to that castle ,  and from that castle to the other castle ,  
because this lord or that lord ,  or the other lord ,  was too 
kind to him : until at last he came to Berkeley Castle ,  near 
the River Severn ,  where  ( the Lord Berkeley being then ill 
and absent )  he fell into the hands of two black ruffians ,  
called Thomas Gournay and William Ogle .  

One night— it was the night of September the twenty  - first ,  
one thousand three hundred and twenty - seven — dreadful 
screams were heard ,  by the startled people in the neigh -  
bouring town ,  ringing through the thick walls of the Castle ,  



1 66 A CHILDS HISTOBY OF ENGLAND 

and the dark deep night  ;  and they said ,  as they  - were thus 
horribly awakened from their sleep .   "  May Heaven he 
merciful to the King  ;  for those cries forbode that no good 
is being done to him in his dismal prison  !   "  Next morning 
he was dead — not bruised ,  or stabbed ,  or marked upon the 
body ,  but much distorted in the face  ;  and it was whispered 
afterwards ,  that those two villains ,  Gournay and Ogle ,  had 
burnt up his inside with a red - hot iron .  

If you ever come near Gloucester ,  and see the centre tower 
of its beautiful Cathedral ,  with its four rich pinnacles ,  rising 
lightly in the air  ;  you may remember that the wretched 
Edward the Second was buried in the old abbey of that 
ancient city ,  at forty - three years old ,  after being for nineteen 
years and a half a perfectly incapable King .  



CHAPTER XVIII 

ENGLAND UNDER EDWARD THE THIRD 

Roger Mortimer ,  the Queens lover  ( who escaped to France 
in the last chapter )  ,  was far from profiting by the examples 
he had had of the fate of favourites .  Having ,  through 
the Queens influence ,  come into possession of the estates of 
thetwoDespensers ,  he became extremely proud and ambitious ,  
and sought to be the real ruler of England .  The young 
King ,  who was crowned at fourteen years of age with all the 
usual solemnities ,  resolved not to bear this ,  and soon pur -  
sued Mortimer to his ruin .  

The people themselves were not fond of Mortimer — first ,  
because he was a Royal favourite  ;  secondly ,  because he was 
supposed to have helped to make a peace with Scotland which 
now took place ,  and in virtue of which the young Kings 
sister Joan ,  only seven years old ,  was promised in marriage 
to David ,  the son and heir of Robert Bruce ,  who was only 
five years old .  The nobles hated Mortimer because of his 
pride ,  riches ,  and power .  They went so far as to take up 
arms against him  ;  but were obliged to submit .  The Earl 
of Kent ,  one of those who did so ,  but who afterwards went 
over to Mortimer and the Queen ,  was made an example of 
in the following cruel manner : 

He seems to have been anything but a wise old earl  ;  and 
he was persuaded by the agents of the favourite and the 
Queen ,  that poor King Edward the Second was not really 
dead  ;  and thus was betrayed into writing letters favouring 
his rightful claim to the throne .  This was made out to be 
high treason ,  and he was tried ,  found guilty ,  and sentenced to 
be executed .  They took the poor old lord outside the town 
of Winchester ,  and there kept him waiting some three or 
four hours until they could find somebody to cut off his head .  
At last ,  a convict said he would do it ,  if the government 
would pardon him in return  ;  and they gave him the 



l68 A CHILDS HISTORY OF ENGLAND 

pardon  ;  and at one blow he put the Earl of Kent out of his 
last suspense .  

While the Queen was in France ,  she had found a lovely 
and good young lady ,  named Philippa ,  who she thought 
would make an excellent wife for her son .  The young 
King married this lady ,  soon after he came to the throne  ;  
and her first child ,  Edward ,  Prince of Wales ,  afterwards 
became celebrated ,  as we shall presently see ,  under the 
famous title of Edward the Black Prince .  

The young King ,  thinking the time ripe for the downfall 
of Mortimer ,  took counsel with Lord Montacute how he 
should proceed .  A Parliament was going to be held at 
Nottingham ,  and that lord recommended that the favourite 
should be seized by night in Nottingham Castle ,  where he 
was sure to be .  Now ,  this ,  like many other things ,  was 
more easily said than done  ;  because ,  to guard against 
treachery ,  the great gates of the Castle were locked every 
night ,  and the great keys were carried upstairs to the 
Queen ,  who laid them under her own pillow .  But the 
Castle had a governor ,  and the governor being Lord Monta -  
cute s friend ,  confided to him how he knew of a secret 
passage underground ,  hidden from observation by the weeds 
and brambles with which it was overgrown  ;  and how ,  
through that passage ,  the conspirators might enter in the 
dead of the night ,  and go straight to Mortimers room .  
Accordingly ,  upon a certain dark night ,  at midnight ,  they 
made their way through this dismal place : startling the 
rats ,  and frightening the owls and bats : and came safely to 
the bottom of the main tower of the Castle ,  where the King 
met them ,  and took them up a profoundly - dark staircase in 
a deep silence .  They soon heard the voice of Mortimer 
in council with some friends  ;  and bursting into the room 
with a sudden noise ,  took him prisoner .  The Queen cried 
out from her bed - chamber .   " Oh ,  my sweet son ,  my dear 
son ,  spare my gentle Mortimer !  "  They carried him off ,  
however  ;  and ,  before the next Parliament ,  accused him of 
having made differences between the young King and his 
mother ,  and of having brought about the death of the Earl 
of Kent ,  and even of the late King  ;  for ,  as you know by 
this time ,  when they wanted to get rid of a man in those 
old days ,  they were not very particular of what they accused 
him .  Mortimer was found guilty of all this ,  and was 
sentenced to be hanged at Tyburn .  The King shut his 



EDWARD THE THIRD 169 

mother up in genteel confinement ,  where she passed the 
rest of her life  ;  and now he became King in earnest .  

The first effort he made was to conquer Scotland .  The 
English lords who had lands in Scotland ,  finding that their 
rights were not respected under the late peace ,  made war 
on their own account : choosing for their general ,  Edward ,  
the son of John Baliol ,  who made such a vigorous fight ,  
that in less than two months he won the whole Scottish 
Kingdom .  He was joined ,  when thus triumphant ,  by the 
King and Parliament  ;  and he and the King in person 
besieged the Scottish forces in Berwick .  The whole Scottish 
army coming to the assistance of their countrymen ,  such 
a furious battle ensued ,  that thirty thousand men are said 
to have been killed in it .  Baliol was then crowned King of 
Scotland ,  doing homage to the King of England  ;  but little 
came of his successes after all ,  for the Scottish men rose 
against him ,  within no very long time ,  and David Bruce 
came back within ten years and took his kingdom .  

France was a far richer country than Scotland ,  and the 
King had a much greater mind to conquer it .  So ,  he let 
Scotland alone ,  and pretended that he had a claim to the 
French throne in right of his mother .  He had ,  in reality ,  
no claim at all  ;  but that mattered little in those times .  
He brought over to his cause many little princes and 
sovereigns ,  and even courted the alliance of the people of 
Flanders — a busy ,  working community ,  who had very small 
respect for kings ,  and whose head man was a brewer .  With 
such forces as he raised by these means ,  Edward invaded 
France  ;  but he did little by that ,  except run into debt in 
carrying on the war to the extent of three hundred thousand 
pounds .  The next year he did better  ;  gaining a great sea -  
fight in the harbour of Sluys .  This success ,  however ,  was 
very short - lived ,  for the Flemings took fright at the siege 
of Saint Omer and ran away ,  leaving their weapons and 
baggage behind them .  Philip ,  the French King ,  coming up 
with his army ,  and Edward being veiy anxious to decide 
the war ,  proposed to settle the difference by single combat 
with him ,  or by a fight of one hundred knights on each 
side .  The French King said ,  he thanked him  ;  but being 
very well as he was ,  he would rather not .  So ,  after some 
skirmishing and talking ,  a short peace was made .  

It was soon broken by King Edwards favouring the 
cause of John ,  Earl of Montford  ;  a French nobleman ,  who 
1 .  U 



170 A CHILD S HISTORY OF ENGLAND 

asserted a claim of his own against the French King ,  and 
offered to do homage to England for the Crown of France ,  
if he could obtain it through Englands help .  This French 
lord ,  himself ,  was soon defeated by the French Kings son ,  
and shut up in a tower in Paris  ;  but his wife ,  a courageous 
and beautiful woman ,  who is said to have had the courage 
of a man ,  and the heart of a lion ,  assembled the people of 
Brittany ,  where she then was  ;  and ,  showing them her 
infant son ,  made many pathetic entreaties to them not to 
desert her and their young Lord .  They took fire at this 
appeal ,  and rallied round her in the strong castle of 
Hennebon .  Here she was not only besieged without by 
the French under Charles de Blois ,  but was endangered 
within by a dreary old bishop ,  who was always representing 
to the people what horrors they must undergo if they were 
faithful — first from famine ,  and afterwards from fire and 
sword .  But this noble lady ,  whose heart never failed her ,  
encouraged her soldiers by her own example  ;  went from 
post to post like a great general  ;  even mounted on horse -  
back fully armed ,  and ,  issuing from the castle by a by - path ,  
fell upon the French camp ,  set fire to the tents ,  and threw 
the whole force into disorder .  This done ,  she got safely 
back to Hennebon again ,  and was received with loud shouts 
of joy by the defenders of the castle ,  who had given her 
up for lost .  As they were now very short of provisions ,  
however ,  and as they could not dine off enthusiasm ,  and as 
the old bishop was always saying .    I told you what it 
would come to  !   "  they began to lose heart ,  and to talk of 
yielding the castle up .  The brave Countess retiring to an 
upper room and looking with great grief out to sea ,  where 
she expected relief from England ,  saw .  at this very time ,  
the English ships in the distance ,  and was relieved and 
rescued  !  Sir Walter Manning ,  the English commander ,  
so admired her courage ,  that ,  being come into the castle 
with the English knights ,  and having made a feast there ,  
he assaulted the French by way of dessert ,  and beat them 
off triumphantly .  Then he and the knights came back to 
the castle with great joy  ;  and the Countess who had 
watched them from a high tower ,  thanked them with all 
her heart ,  and kissed them every one .  

This noble lady distinguished herself afterwards in a sea -  
fight with the French off Guernsey ,  when she was on her 
way to England to ask for more troops .  Her great spirit 



EDWARD THE THIRD 171 

roused another lady ,  the wife of another French lord  ( whom 
the French King very barbarously murdered )  ,  to distinguish 
herself scarcely less .  The time was fast coming ,  however ,  
when Edward ,  Prince of Wales ,  was to he the great star of 
this French and English war .  

It was in the month of July ,  in the year one thousand 
three hundred and forty - six ,  when the King embarked at 
Southampton for France ,  with an army of about thirty 
thousand men in all ,  attended by the Prince of Wales and 
by several of the chief nobles .  He landed at La Hogue in 
Normandy ;  and ,  burning and destroying as he went ,  accord -  
ing to custom ,  advanced up the left bank of the Eiver Seine ,  
and fired the small towns even close to Paris ;  but .  being 
watched from the right bank of the river by the French 
King and all his army ,  it came to this at last ,  that Edward 
found himself ,  on Saturday the twenty - sixth of August ,  one 
thousand three hundred and forty - six ,  on a rising ground 
behind the little French village of Crecy ,  face to face with 
the French Kings force .  And ,  although the French King 
had an enormous army — in number more than eight times 
his — he there resolved to beat him or be beaten .  

The young Prince ,  assisted by the Earl of Oxford and 
the Earl of Warwick ,  led the first division of the English 
army  ;  two other great Earls led the second  ;  and the King ,  
the third .  When the morning dawned ,  the King received 
the sacrament ,  and heard prayers ,  and then ,  mounted on 
horseback with a white wand in his hand ,  rode from 
company to company ,  and rank to rank ,  cheering and 
encouraging both officers and men .  Then the whole army 
breakfasted ,  each man sitting on the ground where he had 
stood  ;  and then they remained quietly on the ground with 
their weapons ready .  

Up came the French King with all his great force .  It 
was dark and angiy Aveather  ;  there was an eclipse of 
the sun  ;  there was a thunder - storm ,  accompanied with 
tremendous rain  ;  the frightened birds flew screaming above 
the soldiers heads .  A certain captain in the French army 
advised the French King ,  who was by no means cheerful ,  
not to begin the battle until the morrow .  The King ,  taking 
this advice ,  gave the word to halt .  But ,  those behind not 
understanding it ,  or desiring to he foremost with the rest ,  
came pressing on .  The roads for a great distance were 
covered with this immense army ,  and with the common 



J 72 A CHILD 8 HISTORY OF ENGLAND 

people from the villages ,  who were flourishing their rude 
weapons ,  and making a great noise .  Owing to these circum -  
stances ,  the French army advanced in the greatest confusion ;  
every French lord doing what lie liked with his own men ,  
and putting out the men of every other French lord .  

Now ,  their King relied strongly upon a great body of 
cross - bowmen from Genoa ;  and these he ordered to the 
front to begin the battle ,  on finding that he could not stop 
it .  They shouted once ,  they shouted twice ,  they shouted 
three times ,  to alarm the English archers ;  but ,  the English 
would have heard them shout three thousand times and 
would have never moved .  At last the cross - bowmen went 
forward a little ,  and began to discharge their bolts  ;  upon 
which ,  the English let fly such a hail of arrows ,  that the 
Genoese speedily made off — for their cross - bows ,  besides 
being heavy to carry ,  required to be wound up with a 
handle ,  and consequently took time to re - load  ;  the English ,  
on the other hand ,  could discharge their arrows almost as 
fast as the arrows could fly .  

When the French King saw the Genoese turning ,  he cried 
out to his men to kill those scoundrels ,  who were doing 
harm instead of service .  This increased the confusion .  
Meanwhile the English archers ,  continuing to shoot as fast 
as ever ,  shot down great numbers of the French soldiers 
and knights  ;  whom certain sly Cornish - men and Welsh -  
men ,  from the English army ,  creeping along the ground ,  
despatched with great knives .  

The Prince and his division were at this time so hard -  
pressed ,  that the Earl of Warwick sent a message to the 
King ,  who was overlooking the battle from a windmill ,  
beseeching him to send more aid .  

 "  Is my son killed ?  "  said the King .  

 " No ,  sire ,  please God ,  "  returned the messenger .  

 " Is he wounded? "  said the King .  

 " No ,  sire .  "  

 "  Is he thrown to the ground ?  "  said the King .  

 " No ,  sire ,  not so  ;  but ,  he is very hard - pressed .  "  

 " Then ,  "  said the King ,   " go back to those who sent you ,  
and tell them I shall send no aid  ;  because I set my heart 
upon my son proving himself this day a brave knight ,  and 
because I am resolved ,  please God ,  that the honour of 
a great victory shall be his  !   "  

These bold words ,  being reported to the Prince and his 



EDWARD THE THIRD 1 73 

division ,  so raised their spirits ,  that they fought better than 
ever .  The King of France charged gallantly with his men 
many times  ;  but it was of no use .  Night closing in ,  his 
horse was killed under him by an English arrow ,  and the 
knights and nobles who had clustered thick about him early 
in the day ,  were now completely scattered .  At last ,  some 
of his few remaining followers led him off the field by force ,  
since he would not retire of himself ,  and they journeyed 
away to Amiens .  The victorious English ,  lighting their 
watch - fires ,  made merry on the field ,  and the King ,  riding 
to meet his gallant son ,  took him in his arms ,  kissed him .  
and told him that he had acted nobly ,  and proved himself 
worthy of the day and of the crown .  While it was yet 
night ,  King Edward was hardly aware of the great victory 
he had gained  ;  but ,  next day ,  it was discovered that eleven 
princes ,  twelve hundred knights ,  and thirty thousand common 
men lay dead upon the French side .  Among these was the 
King of Bohemia ,  an old blind man  ;  who ,  having been told 
that his son was wounded in the battle ,  and that no force 
could stand against the Black Prince ,  called to him two 
knights ,  put himself on horseback between them ,  fastened 
the three bridles together ,  and dashed in among the English ,  
where he was presently slain .  He bore as his crest three 
white ostrich feathers ,  with the motto Ich dien ,  signifying 
in English  " I serve .  "  This crest and motto were taken by 
the Prince of Wales in remembrance of that famous day ,  
and have been borne by the Prince of Wales ever since .  

Five days after this great battle ,  the King laid siege to 
Calais .  This siege — ever afterwards memorable — lasted 
nearly a year .  In order to starve the inhabitants out ,  King 
Edward built so many wooden houses for the lodgings of 
his troops ,  that it is said their quarters looked like a second 
Calais suddenly sprung around the first .  Early in the siege ,  
the governor of the town drove out what he called the useless 
mouths ,  to the number of seventeen hundred persons ,  men 
and women ,  young and old .  King Edward allowed them to 
pass through his lines ,  and even fed them ,  and dismissed 
them with money  ;  but ,  later in the siege ,  he was not so 
merciful five hundred more ,  who were afterwards driven 
out ,  dying of starvation and misery .  The garrison were so 
hard - pressed at last ,  that they sent a letter to King Philip ,  
telling him that they had eaten all the horses ,  all the dogs ,  
and all the rats and mire that could be found in the place : 



174 A CHILD S HISTORY OF ENGLAND 

and ,  that if lift did not relieve them ,  they must either 
surrender to the English ,  or eat one another .  Philip made 
one effort to give them relief : but they were so hemmed in 
by the English power ,  that he could not succeed ,  and was 
fain to leave the place .  Upon this they hoisted the English 
flag ,  and surrendered to King Edward .   "  Tell your general . * 
said he to the humble messengers who came out of the 
town ,   " that I require to have sent here ,  six of the most 
distinguished citizens ,  bare - legged ,  and in their shirts ,  with 
ropes about their necks  ;  and let those six men bring with 
them the keys of the castle and the town .  "  

When the Governor of Calais related this to the people in 
the Market - place ,  there was great weeping and distress  ;  in 
the midst of which ,  one worthy citizen ,  named Eustace de 
Saint Pierre ,  rose up and said ,  that if the six men required 
were not sacrificed ,  the whole population would be  ;  there -  
fore ,  he offered himself as the first .  Encouraged by this 
bright example ,  five other worthy citizens rose up one after 
another ,  and offered themselves to save the rest .  The 
Governor ,  who was too badly wounded to be able to walk ,  
mounted a poor old horse that had not been eaten ,  and 
conducted these good men to the gate ,  while all the people 
cried and mourned .  

Edward received them wrathfully ,  and ordered the heads 
of the whole six to be struck off .  However ,  the good Queen 
fell upon her knees ,  and besought the King to give them up 
to her .  The King replied ,   "  I wish 3 - 011 had been somewhere 
else  ;  but I cannot refuse } r ou .  "  So she had them properly 
dressed ,  made a feast for them ,  and sent them back with 
a handsome present ,  to the great rejoicing of the whole 
camp .  I hope the people of Calais loved the daughter to 
whom she gave birth soon afterwards ,  for her gentle 
mothers sake .  

Now came that terrible disease ,  the Plague ,  into Europe ,  
hurrying from the heart of China  ;  and killed the wretched 
people — especially the poor — in such enormous numbers ,  
that one half of the inhabitants of England are related to 
have died of it .  It killed the cattle ,  in great numbers ,  too  ;  
and so few working men remained alive ,  that there were not 
enough left to till the ground .  

After eight years of differing and quarrelling ,  the Prince 
of Wales again invaded France with an army of sixty 
thousand men .  He went through the south of the country .  



EDWARD THE THIRD 1 75 

burning and plundering wheresoever he went  ;  while his 
father ,  who had still the tScottish war upon his hands ,  did 
the like in Scotland ,  but was harassed and worried in his 
retreat from that country by the Scottish men ,  who repaid 
his cruelties with interest .  

The French King ,  Philip ,  was now dead ,  and was succeeded 
by his son John .  The Black Prince ,  called by that name 
from the colour of the armour he wore to set off his fair 
complexion ,  continuing to burn and destroy in France ,  
roused John into determined opposition  ;  and so cruel had 
the Black Prince been in his campaign ,  and so severely had 
the French peasants suffered ,  that he could not find one 
who ,  for love ,  or money ,  or the fear of death ,  would tell 
him what the French King was doing ,  or where he was .  
Thus it happened that he came • upon the French Kings 
forces ,  all of a sudden ,  near the town of Poitiers ,  and found 
that the whole neighbouring country was occupied by a vast 
French army .   "  God help us  !   "  said the Black Prince ,  
• we must make the best of it .  "  

So ,  on a Sunday morning ,  the eighteenth of September ,  
the Prince — whose army was now reduced to ten thousand 
men in all — prepared to give battle to the French King ,  who 
had sixty thousand horse alone .  While he was so engaged ,  
there came riding from the French camp ,  a Cardinal ,  who 
had persuaded John to let him offer terms ,  and try to save 
the shedding of Christian blood .   " Save my honour ,  "  said 
the Prince to this good priest ,   "  and save the honour of my 
army ,  and I will make any reasonable terms .  "  He offered 
to give up all the towns ,  castles ,  and prisoners ,  he had taken ,  
and to swear to make no war in France for seven years  ;  
but ,  as John would hear of nothing but his surrender ,  with 
a hundred of his chief knights ,  the treaty was broken off ,  
and the Prince said quietly —  " God defend the right ;  we 
shall fight to - morrow .  "  

Therefore ,  on the Monday morning ,  at break of day ,  the 
two armies prepared for battle .  The English were posted 
in a strong place ,  which could only be approached by one 
narrow lane ,  skirted by hedges on both sides .  The French 
attacked them by this lane  ;  but were so galled and slain by 
English arrows from behind the hedges ,  that they were 
forced to retreat .  Then went six hundred English bowmen 
round about ,  and ,  coming upon the rear of the French army ,  
rained arrows on them thick and fast .  The French knights ,  



176 A CHILDS HISTORY OF ENGLAND 

thrown into confusion ,  quitted their banners and dispersed 
in all directions .  Said Sir John Chandos to the Prince ,  
 "  Ride forward ,  noble Prince ,  and the day is yours .  The 
King of France is so valiant a gentleman ,  that I know he 
will never fly ,  and may be taken prisoner .  "  Said the Prince 
to this ,  Advance ,  English banners ,  in the name of God and 
St .  George  !   "  and on they pressed until they came up with 
the French King ,  fighting fiercely with his battle - axe ,  and ,  
when all his nobles had forsaken him ,  attended faithfully to 
the last by his youngest son Philip ,  only sixteen years of 
age .  Father and son fought well ,  and the King had already 
two wounds in his face ,  and had been beaten down ,  when 
he at last delivered himself to a banished French knight ,  
and gave him his right - hand glove in token that he had 
done so .  

The Black Prince was generous as well as brave ,  and he 
invited his royal prisoner to supper in his tent ,  and waited 
upon him at table ,  and ,  when they afterwards rode into 
London in a gorgeous procession ,  mounted the French King 
on a fine cream - coloured horse ,  and rode at his side on 
a little pony .  This was all very kind ,  but I think it was ,  
perhaps ,  a little theatrical too ,  and has been made more 
meritorious than it deserved to be  ;  especially as I am 
inclined to think that the greatest kindness to the King of 
France would have been not to have shown him to the 
people at all .  However ,  it must be said ,  for these acts of 
politeness ,  that ,  in course of time ,  they did much to soften 
the horrors of war and the passions of conquerors .  It was 
a long ,  long time before the common soldiers began to have 
the benefit of such courtly deeds  ;  but they did at last  ;  and 
thus it is possible that a poor soldier who asked for quarter 
at the battle of Waterloo ,  or any other such great fight ,  may 
have owed his life indirectly to Edward the Black Prince .  

At this time there stood in the Strand ,  in London ,  
a palace called the Savoy ,  which was given up to the 
captive King of France and his son for their residence .  
As the King of Scotland had now been King Edwards 
captive for eleven years too ,  his success was ,  at this time ,  
tolerably complete .  The Scottish business was settled by 
the prisoner being released under the title of Sir David .  
King of Scotland ,  and by his engaging to pay a large 
ransom .  The state of France encouraged England to 
propose harder terms to that country ,  where the people 



EDWARD THE THIRD 1 77 

rose against the unspeakable cruelty and barbarity of its 
nobles  ;  where the nobles rose in turn against the people  ;  
where the most frightful outrages were committed on all 
sides  ;  and where the insurrection of the peasants ,  called 
the insurrection of the Jacquerie ,  from Jacques ,  a common 
Christian name among the country people of France ,  
awakened terrors and hatreds that have scarcely yet passed 
away .  A treaty called the Great Peace ,  was at last signed ,  
under which King Edward agreed to give up the greater 
part of his conquests ,  and King John to pay ,  within six 
years ,  a ransom of three million crowns of gold .  He was 
so beset by his own nobles and courtiers for having yielded 
to these conditions — though they could help him to no 
better — that he came back of his own will to his old palace -  
prison of the Savoy ,  and there died .  

Theie was a Sovereign of Castile at that time ,  called 
Pedro the Cruel ,  who deserved the name remarkably 
well : having committed ,  among other cruelties ,  a variety 
of murders .  This amiable monarch being driven from his 
throne for his crimes ,  went to the province of Bordeaux ,  
where the Black Prince — now married to his cousin Joan ,  
a pretty widow — was residing ,  and besought his help .  The 
Prince ,  who took to him much more kindly than a prince 
of such fame ought to have taken to such a ruffian ,  readily 
listened to his fair promises ,  and agreeing to help him ,  sent 
secret orders to some troublesome disbanded soldiers of his 
and his fathers ,  who called themselves the Free Com -  
panions ,  and who had been a pest to the French people ,  
for some time ,  to aid this Pedro .  The Prince ,  himself ,  
going into Spain to head the army of relief ,  soon set Pedro 
on his throne again — where he no sooner found himself ,  
than ,  of course ,  he behaved like the villain he was ,  broke 
his word without the least shame ,  and abandoned all the 
piomises he had made to the Black Prince .  

Now ,  it had cost the Prince a good deal of money to pay 
soldiers to support this murderous King  ;  and finding him -  
self ,  when he came back disgusted to Bordeaux ,  not only in 
bad health ,  but deeply in debt ,  he began to tax his French 
subjects to pay his creditoi - s .  They appealed to the French 
King ,  Charles  ;  war again broke out ;  and the French town 
of Limoges ,  which the Prince had greatly benefited ,  went 
over to the French King .  Upon this he ravaged the province 
of which it was the capital  ;  burnt ,  and plundered ,  and 



178 A CHILDS HISTORY OF ENGLAND 

killed in the old sickening way  ;  and refused mercy to the 
prisoners ,  men ,  women ,  and children taken in the offending 
town ,  though he was so ill and so much in need of pity 
himself from Heaven ,  that he was carried in a litter .  He 
lived to come home and make himself popular with the 
people and Parliament ,  and he died on Trinity Sunday ,  
the eighth of June ,  one thousand three hundred and 
seventy - six ,  at forty - six years old .  

The whole nation mourned for him as one of the most 
renowned and beloved princes it had ever had  ;  and he was 
buried with great lamentations in Canterbury Cathedral .  
Near to the tomb of Edward the Confessor ,  his monument ,  
with his figure ,  carved in stone ,  and represented in the old 
black armour ,  lying on its back ,  may be seen at this day ,  
with an ancient coat of mail ,  a helmet ,  and a pair of 
gauntlets hanging from a beam above it ,  which most people 
like to believe were once worn by the Black Prince .  

King Edward did not outlive his renowned son ,  long .  
He was old ,  and one Alice Perrers ,  a beautiful lady ,  had 
contrived to make him so fond of her in his old age ,  that 
he could refuse her nothing ,  and made himself ridiculous .  
She little deserved his love ,  or — what I dare say she valued 
a great deal more — the jewels of the late Queen ,  which he 
gave her among other rich presents .  She took the very 
ring from his finger on the morning of the day when he 
died ,  and left him to be pillaged by his faithless servants .  
Only one good priest was true to him ,  and attended him to 
the last .  

Besides being famous for the great victories I have 
related ,  the reign of King Edward the Third was rendered 
memorable in better ways ,  by the growth of architecture 
and the erection of Windsor Castle .  In better ways still ,  
by the rising up of Wickliffe ,  originally a poor parish 
priest : who devoted himself to exposing ,  with wonderful 
power and success ,  the ambition and corruption of the Pope ,  
and of the whole church of which he was the head .  

Some of those Flemings were induced to come to England 
in this reign too ,  and to settle in Norfolk ,  where they made 
better woollen cloths than the English had ever had before .  
The Order of the Garter  ( a very fine tiling in its way .  but 
hardly so important as good clothes for the nation )  also 
dates from this period .  The King is said to have picked 
up a ladys garter at a ball ,  and to have said .  Honi soit qui 



EDWARD THE THIRD 1 79 

mal y pense — in English ,   " Evil be to him who evil thinks 
of it .  "  The courtiers were usually glad to imitate what the 
King said or did ,  and hence from a slight incident the Order 
of the Garter was instituted ,  and became a great dignity .  
So the story goes .  



CHAPTER XIX 

ENGLAND UNDER RICHARD THE SECOND 

Richard ,  son of the Black Prince ,  a boy eleven years of age ,  
succeeded to the Crown under the title of King Richard the 
Second .  The whole English nation were ready to admire 
him for the sake of his brave father .  As to the lords and 
ladies about the Court ,  they declared l . im to be the most 
beautiful ,  the wisest ,  and the best — even of princes — whom 
the lords and ladies about the Court ,  generally declare to 
be the most beautiful ,  the wisest ,  and the best of mankind .  
To natter a poor boy in this base manner was not a very 
likely way to develop whatever good was in him  ;  and it 
brought him to anything but a good or happy end .  

The Duke of Lancaster ,  the young Kings uncle — commonly 
called John of Gaunt ,  from having been born at Ghent ,  
which the common people so pronounced — was supposed to 
have some thoughts of the throne himself  ;  but ,  as he was 
not popular ,  and the memory of the Black Prince was .  he 
submitted to his nephew .  

The war with France being still unsettled ,  the Govern -  
ment of England wanted money to provide for the expenses 
that might arise out of it  ;  accordingly a certain tax .  called 
the Pull - tax .  which had originated in the last reign ,  was 
ordered to be levied on the people .  This was a tax on 
every person in the kingdom ,  male and female ,  above the 
age of fourteen ,  of three groats  ( or three fourpenny pieces )  
a year ;  clergymen were charged more ,  and only beggars 
were exempt .  

I have no need to repeat that the common people of 
England had long been suffering under great oppression .  
They were still the mere slaves of the lords of the land on 
which they lived ,  and were on most occasions harshly and 
unjustly treated .  But ,  they had begun by this time to 
think very seriously of not bearing <[iiite so much  ;  and .  



RICHARD THE SECOND l8l 

probably ,  were emboldened by that French insurrection 
I mentioned in the last chapter .  

The people of Essex rose against the Poll - tax ,  and being 
severely handled by the government officers ,  killed some of 
them .  At this very time one of the tax - collectors ,  going 
his rounds from house to house ,  at Dartford in Kent came 
to the cottage of one Wat ,  a tiler by trade ,  and claimed 
the tax upon his daughter .  Her mother ,  who was at home ,  
declared that she was under the age of fourteen  ;  upon 
that ,  the collector  ( as other collectors had already done in 
different parts of England )  behaved in a savage way ,  and 
brutally insulted Wat Tylers daughter .  The daughter 
screamed ,  the mother screamed .  Wat the Tiler ,  who was 
at work not far off ,  ran to the spot ,  and did what any 
honest father under such provocation might have done — 
struck the collector dead at a blow .  

Instantly the people of that town uprose as one man .  
They made Wat Tyler their leader  ;  they joined with the 
people of Essex ,  who were in arms under a priest called 
Jack Straw  ;  they took out of prison another priest named 
John Ball  ;  and gathering in numbers as they went along ,  
advanced ,  in a great confused army of poor men ,  to Black -  
heath .  It is said that they wanted to abolish all property ,  
and to declare all men equal .  I do not think this very 
likely  ;  because they stopped the travellers on the roads 
and made them swear to be true to King Kichard and the 
people .  Nor were they at all disposed to injure those who 
had done them no harm ,  merely because thpy were of high 
station  ;  for ,  the Kings mother ,  who had to pass through 
their camp at Blackheath ,  on her way to her young son ,  
lying for safety in the Tower of London ,  had merely to kiss 
a few dirty - faced rough - bearded men who were noisily fond 
of royalty ,  and so got away in perfect safety .  Next day the 
whole mass marched on to London Bridge .  

There was a drawbridge in the middle ,  which William 
Walworth the Mayor caused to be raised to prevent their 
coming into the city  ;  but they soon terrified the citizens 
into lowering it again ,  and spread themselves ,  with great 
uproar ,  over the streets .  They broke open the prisons  ;  
they burned the papers in Lambeth Palace  ;  they destroyed 
the Duke of Lancasters Palace ,  the Savoy ,  in the Strand ,  
said to be the most beautiful and splendid in England  ;  
they set lire to the books and documents in the Temple  ;  



182 A CHILUS HISTORY OF ENGLAND 

and made a great riot .  Many of these outrages were com -  
mitted in drunkenness  ;  since those citizens ,  who had well -  
filled cellars ,  were only too glad to throw them open to 
save the rest of their property  ;  but even the drunken 
rioters were very careful to steal nothing .  They were so 
angry with one man ,  who was seen to take a silver cup 
at the Savoy Palace ,  and put it in his breast ,  that they 
drowned him in the river ,  cup and all .  

The young King had been taken out to treat with them 
before they committed these excesses ;  but ,  he and the 
people about him were so frightened by the riotous shouts ,  
that they got back to the Tower in the best way they could .  
This made the insurgents bolder  ;  so they went on rioting 
away ,  striking off the heads of those who did not ,  at a 
moments notice ,  declare for King Kichard and the people  ;  
and killing as many of the unpopular persons whom they 
supposed to be their enemies as they could by any means 
lay hold of .  In this manner they passed one very violent 
day ,  and then proclamation was made that the King would 
meet them at Mile - end ,  and grant their requests .  

The rioters went to Mile - end to the number of sixty 
thousand ,  and the King met them there ,  and to the King 
the rioters peaceably proposed four conditions .  First ,  that 
neither they ,  nor their children ,  nor any coming after them ,  
should be made slaves any more .  Secondly ,  that the rent 
of land should be fixed at a certain price in money ,  instead 
of being paid in service .  Thirdly ,  that they should have 
liberty to buy and sell in all markets and public places ,  like 
other free men .  Fourthly ,  that they should be pardoned 
for past offences .  Heaven knows ,  there was nothing very 
unreasonable in these proposals  !  The young King deceit -  
fully pretended to think so ,  and kept thirty "  clerks up .  all 
night ,  writing out a charter accordingly .  

Now .  Wat Tyler himself wanted more than this .  He 
wanted the entire abolition of the forest laws .  He was not 
at Mile - end with the rest ,  but ,  while that meeting was being 
held ,  broke into the Tower of London and slew the arch -  
bishop and the treasurer ,  for whose heads the people had 
cried out loudly the day before .  He and his men even 
thrust their swords into the bed of the Princess of Wales 
while the Princess was in it .  to make certain that none of 
their enemies were concealed there .  

So ,  Wat and his men still continued armed ,  and rode 



RICHARD THE SECOND i8q 



O 



about the city .  Next morning ,  the King with a small train 
of some sixty gentlemen — among whom was Walworth 
the Mayor— rode into Smithfield ,  and saw Wat and his 
people at a little distance .  Says Wat to his men ,   "  There 
is the King .  I will go speak with him ,  and tell him what 
we want .  "  

Straightway Wat rode up to him ,  and began to talk .  
 "  King ,  "  says Wat ,   "  dost thou see all my men there ?  "  

 "  Ah ,  "  says the King .   "  Why ?  "  

Because ,  "  says Wat ,   " they are all at my command ,  and 
have sworn to do whatever I bid them .  "  

Some declared afterwards that as Wat said this ,  he laid 
his hand on the Kings bridle .  Others declared that he was 
seen to play with his own dagger .  I think ,  myself ,  that he 
just spoke to the King like a rough ,  angry man as he was ,  
and did nothing more .  At any rate he was expecting no 
attack ,  and preparing for no resistance ,  when Walworth 
the Mayor did the not very valiant deed of drawing a short 
sword and stabbing him in the throat .  He dropped from 
his horse ,  and one of the Kings people speedily finished 
him .  So fell Wat Tyler .  Fawmers and flatterers made 
a mighty triumph of it ,  and set up a cry which will 
occasionally find an echo to this day .  But Wat was a 
hard - working man ,  who had suffered much ,  and had been 
foully outraged  ;  and it is probable that he was a man of 
a much higher nature and a much braver spirit than any 
of the parasites who exulted then ,  or have exulted since ,  
over his defeat .  

Seeing Wat down ,  his men immediately bent their bows 
to avenge his fall .  If the young King had not had presence 
of mind at that dangerous moment ,  both he and the Mayor 
to boot ,  might have followed Tyler pretty fast .  But the 
King riding up to the crowd ,  cried out that Tyler was 
a traitor ,  and that he would be their leader .  They were 
so taken by surprise ,  that they set up a great shouting ,  and 
followed the boy until he was met at Islington by a large 
body of soldiers .  

The end of this rising was the then usual end .  As soon 
as the King found himself safe ,  he unsaid all he had said ,  
and undid all he had done  ;  some fifteen hundred of the 
rioters were tried  ( mostly in Essex )  with great rigour ,  and 
executed with great cruelty .  Many of them were hanged 
on gibbets ,  and left there as a terror to the country people  ;  



184 A CHILDS HISTORY OF ENGLAND 

and .  because their miserable friends took some of the bodies 
down to bury ,  the King ordered the rest to be chained up — 
■which was the beginning of the barbarous custom of hanging 
in chains .  The Kings falsehood in this business makes such 
a pitiful figure ,  that I think Wat Tyler appears in history 
as beyond comparison the truer and more respectable man 
of the two .  

Richard was now sixteen years of age ,  and married Anne 
of Bohemia ,  an excellent princess ,  who was called  "  the good 
Queen Anne .  "  She deserved a better husband  ;  for the King 
had been fawned and nattered into a treacherous ,  wasteful ,  
dissolute ,  bad young man .  

There were two Popes at this time  ( as if one were not 
enough  !  )  ,  and their quarrels involved Europe in a great deal 
of trouble .  Scotland was still troublesome too  ;  and at home 
there was much jealousy and distrust ,  and plotting and 
counter - plotting ,  because the King feared the ambition of 
his relations ,  and particularly of his uncle ,  the Duke of Lan -  
caster ,  and the duke had his party against the King ,  and 
the King had his party against the duke .  Nor were these 
home troubles lessened when the duke went to Castile to 
urge his claim to the crown of that kingdom  ;  for then the 
Duke of Gloucester ,  another of Richards uncles ,  opposed 
him ,  and influenced the Parliament to demand the dismissal 
of the Kings favourite ministers .  The King said in reply ,  
that he would not for such men dismiss the meanest servant 
in his kitchen .  But ,  it had begun to signify little what 
a King said when a Parliament was determined  ;  so Richard 
was at last obliged to give way ,  and to agree to another 
Government of the kingdom ,  under a commission of fourteen 
nobles ,  for a year .  His uncle of Gloucester was at the head 
of this commission ,  and ,  in fact ,  appointed everybody com -  
posing it .  

Having done all this ,  the King declared as soon as he saw 
an opportunity that he had never meant to do it ,  and that 
it was all illegal  ;  and he got the judges secretly to sign 
a declaration to that effect .  The secret oozed out directly ,  
and was carried to the Duke of Gloucester .  The Duke of 
Gloucester ,  at the head of forty thousand men ,  met the King 
on his entering into London to enforce his authority  ;  the 
King was helpless against him  ;  his favourites and ministers 
were impeached and were mercilessly executed .  Among them 
were two men whom the people regarded with very different 



RICHARD THE SECOND 1 85 

feelings  ;  one ,  Robert Tresilian ,  Chief Justice ,  who was hated 
for having made what was called  "  the bloody circuit  "  to try 
the rioters  ;  the other ,  Sir Simon Burley ,  an honourable 
knight ,  who had been the dear friend of the Black Prince ,  
and the governor and guardian of the King .  For this gentle -  
mans life the good Queen even begged of Gloucester on her 
knees  ;  but Gloucester  ( with or without reason )  feared and 
hated him ,  and replied ,  that if she valued her husbands 
crown ,  she had better beg no more .  All this was done 
under what was called by some the wonderful — and by 
others ,  with better reason ,  the merciless — Parliament .  

But Gloucesters power was not to last for ever .  He held 
it for only a year longer  ;  in which year the famous battle 
of Otterbourne ,  sung in the old ballad of Chevy Chase ,  was 
fought .  When the year was out ,  the King ,  turning suddenly 
to Gloucester ,  in the midst of a great council said ,   " Uncle ,  
how old am I ?  "   "  Your highness ,  "  returned the Duke ,   "  is 
in your twenty -  second year .  "   " Am I so much? "  said the 
King ;   " then I will manage my own affairs !  I am much 
obliged to you ,  my good lords ,  for your past services ,  but 
I need them no more .  "  He followed this up ,  by appointing 
a new Chancellor and a new Treasurer ,  and announced to 
the people that he had resumed the Government .  He held 
it for eight years without opposition .  Through all that time ,  
he kept his determination to revenge himself some day upon 
his uncle Gloucester ,  in his own breast .  

At last the good Queen died ,  and then the King ,  desiring 
to take a second wife ,  proposed to his council that he should 
marry Isabella ,  of France ,  the daughter of Charles the Sixth : 
who ,  the French courtiers said  ( as the English courtiers had 
said of Richard )  ,  was a marvel of beauty and wit ,  and quite 
a phenomenon — of seven years old .  The council were divided 
about this marriage ,  but it took place .  It secured peace 
between England and France for a quarter of a century  ;  but 
it was strongly opposed to the prejudices of the English 
people .  The Duke of Gloucester ,  who was anxious to take 
the occasion of making himself popular ,  declaimed against it 
loudly ,  and this at length decided the King to execute the 
vengeance he had been nursing so long .  

He went with a gay company to the Duke of Gloucesters 
house ,  Pleshey Castle ,  in Essex ,  where the Duke ,  suspecting 
nothing ,  came out into the court - yard to receive his royal 
visitor .  While the King conversed hi a friendly manner 



l86 A CHILDS HISTORY OF ENGLAND 

with the Duchess ,  the Duke was quietly seized ,  hurried away ,  
shipped for Calais ,  and lodged in the castle there .  His 
friends ,  the Earls of Arundel and Warwick ,  were taken in 
the same treacherous manner ,  and confined to their castles .  
A few days after ,  at Nottingham ,  they were impeached of 
high treason .  The Earl of Arundel was condemned and 
beheaded ,  and the Earl of Warwick was banished .  Then ,  
a writ was sent by a messenger to the Governor of Calais ,  
requiring him to send the Duke of Gloucester over to be 
tried .  In three days he returned an answer that he could 
not do that ,  because the Duke of Gloucester had died in 
prison .  The Duke was declared a traitor ,  his property 
was confiscated to the King ,  a real or pretended confession 
he had made in prison to one of the Justices of the Common 
Pleas was produced against him ,  and there was an end of 
the matter .  How the unfortunate duke died ,  very few cared 
to know .  Whether he really died naturally  ;  whether he 
killed himself ;  whether ,  by the Kings order ,  he was 
strangled ,  or smothered between two beds  ( as a serving -  
man of the Governors named Hall ,  did afterwards declare )  ,  
cannot be discovered .  There is not much doubt that he was 
killed ,  somehow or other ,  by his nephews orders .  Among 
the most active nobles in these proceedings were the Kings 
cousin ,  Henry Bolingbroke ,  whom the King had made Duke 
of Hereford to smooth down the old family quarrels ,  and 
some others : who had in the family - plotting times done 
just such acts themselves as they now condemned in the 
duke .  They seem to have been a corrupt set of men  ;  but 
such men were easily found about the court in such days .  

The people murmured at all this ,  and were still very sore 
about the French marriage .  The nobles saw how little the 
King cared for law ,  and how crafty he was ,  and began to be 
somewhat afraid of themselves .  The Kings life was a life 
of continued feasting and excess  ;  his retinue ,  down to the 
meanest servants ,  were dressed in the most costly manner ,  
and caroused at his tables ,  it is related ,  to the number of ten 
thousand persons every day .  He himself ,  surrounded by 
a body of ten thousand archers ,  and enriched by a duty on 
wool which the Commons had granted him for life ,  saw no 
danger of ever being otherwise than powerful and absolute ,  
and was as fierce and haughty as a King could be .  

He had two of his old enemies left ,  in the persons of the 
Dukes ,  of Hereford and Norfolk .  Sparing these no more 



RICHARD THE SECOND 187 

than the others ,  he tampered with the Duke of Hereford 
until he got him to declare before the Council that the Duke 
of Norfolk had lately held some treasonable talk with him ,  
as he was riding near Brentford  ;  and that he had told him ,  
among other things ,  that he could not believe the Kings 
oath — which nobody could ,  I should think .  For this treachery 
he obtained a pardon ,  and the Duke of Norfolk was summoned 
to appear and defend himself .  As he denied the charge and 
said his accuser was a liar and a traitor ,  both noblemen ,  
according to the manner of those times ,  were held in custody ,  
and the truth was ordered to be decided by wager of battle 
at Coventry .  This wager of battle meant that whosoever 
won the combat was to be considered in the right  ;  which 
nonsense meant in effect ,  that no strong man could ever 
be wrong .  A great holiday was made  ;  a great crowd 
assembled ,  with much parade and show  ;  and the two 
combatants were about to rush at each other with their 
lances ,  when the King ,  sitting in a pavilion to see fair ,  
threw down the truncheon he carried in his hand ,  and 
forbade the battle .  The Duke of Hereford was to be banished 
for ten years ,  and the Duke of Norfolk was to be banished 
for life .  So said the King .  The Duke of Hereford went to 
France ,  and went no farther .  The Duke of Norfolk made 
a pilgrimage to the Holy Land ,  and afterwards died at Venice 
of a broken heart .  

Faster and fiercer ,  after this ,  the King went on in his 
career .  The Duke of Lancaster ,  who was the father of the 
Duke of Hereford ,  died soon alter the departure of his son  ;  
and ,  the King ,  although he had solemnly granted to that 
son leave to inherit his fathers property ,  if it should come 
to him during his banishment ,  immediately seized it all ,  
like a robber .  The judges were so afraid of him ,  that they 
disgraced themselves by declaring this theft to be just and 
lawful .  His avarice knew no bounds .  He outlawed seventeen 
counties at once ,  on a frivolous pretence ,  merely to raise 
money by way of fines for misconduct .  In short ,  he did 
as many dishonest things as he could  ;  and cared so little 
for the discontent of his subjects — though even the spaniel 
favourites began to whisper to him that there was such 
a thing as discontent afloat — that he took that time ,  of 
all others ,  for leaving England and making an expedition 
against the Irish .  

He was scarcely gone ,  leaving the Duke of York Regent 



1 88 A CHILDS HISTORY OF ENGLAND 

in his absence ,  when his cousin ,  Henry of Hereford ,  came 
over from France to claim the rights of which he had been 
so monstrously deprived .  He was immediately joined by 
the two great Earls of Northumberland and Westmoreland  ;  
and his uncle ,  the Regent ,  finding the Kings cause unpopular ,  
and the disinclination of the army to act against Henry ,  very 
strong ,  withdrew with the Eoyal forces towards Bristol .  
Henry ,  at the head of an army ,  came from Yorkshire  ( where 
he had landed )  to London and followed him .  They joined 
their forces— how they brought that about ,  is not distinctly 
understood— and proceeded to Bristol Castle ,  whither three 
noblemen had taken the young Queen .  The castle surrender -  
ing ,  they presently put those three noblemen to death .  The 
Regent then remained there ,  and Henry went on to Chester .  

All this time ,  the boisterous weather had prevented the 
King from receiving intelligence of what had occurred .  At 
length it was conveyed to him in Ireland ,  and he sent over 
the Earl of Salisbury ,  who ,  landing at Conway ,  rallied the 
Welshmen ,  and waited for the King a whole fortnight  ;  at 
the end of that time the Welshmen ,  who were perhaps not 
very warm for him in the beginning ,  quite cooled down and 
went home .  When the King did land on the coast at last ,  
he came with a pretty good power ,  but his men cared nothing 
for him ,  and quickly deserted .  Supposing the Welshmen 
to be still at Conway ,  he disguised himself as a priest ,  and 
made for that place in company with his two brothers and 
some few of their adherents .  But ,  there were no Welshmen 
left— only Salisbury and a hundred soldiers .  In this distress ,  
the Kings two brothers ,  Exeter and Surrey ,  offered to go to 
Henry to learn what his intentions were .  Surrey ,  who was 
true to Richard ,  was put into prison .  Exeter ,  who was false ,  
took the royal badge ,  which was a hart ,  off his shield ,  and 
assumed the rose ,  the badge of Henry .  After this ,  it was 
pretty plain to the King what Henrys intentions were ,  
without sending any more messengers to ask .  

The fallen King ,  thus deserted— hemmed in on all sides ,  
and pressed with hunger— rode here and rode there ,  and 
went to this castle ,  and went to that castle ,  endeavouring to 
obtain some provisions ,  but could find none .  He rode 
wretchedly back to Conway ,  and there surrendered himself 
to the Earl of Northumberland ,  who came from Henry ,  in 
reality to take him prisoner ,  but in appearance to offer 
terms  ;  and whose men were hidden not far off .  By this 



RICHARD THE SECOND 189 

earl he was conducted to the castle of Flint ,  where his 
cousin Henry met him ,  and dropped on his knee as if he 
were still respectful to his sovereign .  

 " Fair cousin of Lancaster ,  "  said the King ,   "  you are very 
welcome  "   ( very welcome ,  no doubt  ;  but he would have 
been more so ,  in chains or without a head )  .  

 " My lord ,  "  replied Henry ,  I am come a little before my 
time  ;  but ,  with your good pleasure ,  I will show you the 
reason .  Your people complain with some bitterness ,  that 
you have ruled them rigorously for two - and - twenty years .  
Now ,  if it please God ,  I will help you to govern them better 
in future .  "  

 " Fair cousin ,  "  replied the abject King ,   "  since it pleaseth 
you ,  it pleaseth me mightily .  "  

After this ,  the trumpets sounded ,  and the King was stuck 
on a wretched horse ,  and carried prisoner to Chester ,  where 
he was made to issue a proclamation ,  calling a Parliament .  
From Chester he was taken on towards London .  At Lich -  
field he tried to escape by getting out of a window and 
letting himself down into a garden  ;  it was all in vain ,  
however ,  and he was carried on and shut up in the Tower ,  
where no one pitied him ,  and where the whole people ,  
whose patience he had cpiite tired out ,  reproached him 
without mercy .  Before he got there ,  it is related ,  that his 
very dog left him and departed from his side to lick the 
hand of Henry .  

The day before the Parliament met ,  a deputation went to 
this wrecked King ,  and told him that he had promised the 
Earl of Northumberland at Conway Castle to resign the 
crown .  He said he was quite ready to do it ,  and signed 
a paper in which he renounced his authority and absolved 
his people from their allegiance to him .  He had so little 
spirit left that he gave his royal ring to his triumphant 
cousin Henry with his own hand ,  and said ,  that if he could 
have had leave to appoint a successor ,  that same Henry 
was the man of all others whom he would have named .  
Next day ,  the Parliament assembled in Westminster Hall ,  
where Henry sat at the side of the throne ,  which was empty 
and covered with a cloth of gold .  The paper just signed 
by the King was read to the multitude amid shouts of joy ,  
which were echoed through all the streets  ;  when some of 
the noise had died away ,  the King was formally deposed .  
Then Henry arose ,  and ,  making the sign of the cross on 



190 A CHILD S HISTORY OF ENGLAND 

his forehead and breast ,  challenged the realm of England 
as his right  ;  the archbishops of Canterbury and York seated 
him on the throne .  

The multitude shouted again ,  and the shouts re - echoed 
throughout all the streets .  No one remembered ,  now ,  that 
Richard the Second had ever been the most beautiful ,  the 
wisest ,  and the best of princes  ;  and he now made living  ( to 
my thinking )  a far more sorry spectacle in the Tower of 
London ,  than Wat Tyler had made ,  lying dead ,  among the 
hoofs of the royal horses in Smithfield .  

The Poll - tax died with Wat .  The Smiths to the King and 
Royal Family ,  could make no chains in which the King 
could hang the peoples recollection of him  ;  so the Poll - tax 
was never collected .  



CHAPTER XX 

ENGLAND UNDER HENRY THE FOURTH ,  CALLED 
BOLINGBROKE 

During the last reign ,  the preaching of Wickliffe against the 
pride and cunning of the Pope and all his men ,  had made 
a great noise in England .  Whether the new King wished 
to be in favour with the priests ,  or whether he hoped ,  by 
pretending to be very religious ,  to cheat Heaven itself into 
the belief that he was not an usurper ,  I dont know .  Both 
suppositions are likely enough .  It is certain that he began 
his reign by making a strong show against the followers of 
Wickliffe ,  who were called Lollards ,  or heretics — although 
his father ,  John of Gaunt ,  had been of that way of thinking ,  
as he himself had been more than suspected of being .  It is 
no less certain that he first established in England the 
detestable and atrocious custom ,  brought from abroad ,  of 
burning those people as a punishment for their opinions .  
It was the importation into England of one of the practices 
of what was called the Holy Inquisition : which was the 
most unholy and the most infamous tribunal that ever 
disgraced mankind ,  and made men more like demons than 
followers of Our Saviour .  

No real right to the crown ,  as you know ,  was in this King .  
Edward Mortimer ,  the young Earl of March — who was only 
eight or nine years old ,  and who was descended from the 
Duke of Clarence ,  the elder brother of Henrys father — was ,  
by succession ,  the real heir to the throne .  However ,  the 
King got his son declared Prince of Wales  ;  and ,  obtaining 
possession of the young Earl of March and his little brother ,  
kept them in confinement  ( but not severely )  in Windsor 
Castle .  He then required the Parliament to decide what 
was to be done with the deposed King ,  who was quiet 
enough ,  and who only said that he hoped his cousin Henry 
would be  "  a good lord  "  to him .  The Parliament replied 
that they would recommend his being kept in some secret 



T92 A GUILDS HISTORY OF ENGLAND 

place where the people could not resort ,  and where his 
friends could not he admitted to see him .  Henry ac -  
cordingly passed this sentence upon him ,  and it now began 
to be pretty clear to the nation that Eichard the Second 
would not live very long .  

It was a noisy Parliament ,  as it was an unprincipled one ,  
and the Lords quarrelled so violently among themselves as 
to which of them had been loyal and which disloyal ,  and 
which consistent and which inconsistent ,  that forty gauntlets 
are said to have been thrown upon the floor at one time as 
challenges to as many battles : the truth being that they 
were all false and base together ,  and had been ,  at one time 
with the old King ,  and at another time with the new one ,  
and seldom true for any length of time to any one .  They 
soon began to plot again .  A conspiracy was formed to 
invite the King to a tournament at Oxford ,  and then to take 
him by surprise and kill him .  This murderous enterprise ,  
which was agreed upon at secret meetings in the house of 
the Abbot of  " Westminster ,  was betrayed by the Earl of 
Kutland — one of the conspirators .  The King ,  instead 
of going to the tournament or staying at Windsor  ( where 
the conspirators suddenly went ,  on finding themselves 
discovered ,  with the hope of seizing him )  ,  retired to London ,  
proclaimed them all traitors ,  and advanced upon them with 
a great force .  They retired into the west of England ,  pro -  
claiming Richard King  ;  but ,  the people rose against them ,  
and they were all slain .  Their treason hastened the death 
of the deposed monarch .  Whether he was killed by hired 
assassins ,  or whether he was starved to death ,  or whether 
he refused food on hearing of his brothers being killed  ( who 
were in that plot )  ,  is very doubtful .  He met his death 
somehow  ;  and his body was publicly shown at St .  Pauls 
Cathedral with only the lower pait of the face uncovered .  
I can scarcely doubt that he was killed by the Kings orders .  

The French wife of the miserable Richard was now only 
ten years old ;  and ,  when her father ,  Charles of France ,  
heard of her misfortunes and of her lonely condition in 
England ,  he went mad : as he had several times done before ,  
during the last five or six years .  The French Dukes of 
Burgundy and Bourbon took up the poor girls cause ,  without 
caring much about it ,  but on the chance of getting some -  
thing out of England .  The people of Bordeaux ,  who had 
a sort of superstitious attachment to the memory of Richard ,  



HENRY THE FOURTH 193 

because he was born there ,  swore by the Lord that he had 
been the best man in all his kingdom — which was going 
rather far — and promised to do great things against the 
English .  Nevertheless ,  when they came to consider that 
they ,  and the whole people of France were ruined by their 
own nobles ,  and that the English rule was much the better 
of the two ,  they cooled down again  ;  and the two dukes ,  
although they were very great men ,  could do nothing 
without them .  Then ,  began negotiations between France 
and England for the sending home to Paris of t the poor 
little Queen with all her jewels and her fortune of two 
hundred thousand francs in gold .  The King was quite 
willing to restore the young lady ,  and even the jewels  ;  but 
he said he really could not part with the money .  So ,  at 
last she was safely deposited at Paris without her fortune ,  
and then the Duke of Burgundy  ( who was cousin to the 
French King )  began to quarrel with the Duke of Orleans 
 ( who was brother to the French King )  about the whole 
matter  ;  and those two dukes made France even more 
wretched than ever .  

As the idea of conquering Scotland was still popular at 
home ,  the King marched to the river Tyne and demanded 
homage of the King of that country .  This being refused ,  
he advanced to Edinburgh ,  but did little there  ;  for ,  his 
army being in want of provisions ,  and the Scotch being 
very careful to hold him in check without giving battle ,  
he was obliged to retire .  It is to his immortal honour that 
in this sally he burnt no villages and slaughtered no 
people ,  but was particularly careful that his army should 
be merciful and harmless .  It was a great example in those 
ruthless times .  

A war among the border people of England and Scotland 
went on for twelve months ,  and then the Earl of Northum -  
berland ,  the nobleman who had helped Henry to the crown ,  
began to rebel against him — probably because nothing that 
Henry could do for him would satisfy his extravagant 
expectations .  There was a certain Welsh gentleman ,  named 
Owen Glendower ,  who had been a student in one of the 
Inns of Court ,  and had afterwards been in the service of 
the late King ,  whose Welsh property was taken from him 
by a powerful lord related to the present King ,  who was 
his neighbour .  Appealing for redress ,  and getting none ,  
he took up arms ,  was made an outlaw ,  and declared himself 
1 .  u 



194 A childs history of England 

sovereign of Wales .  He pretended to be a magician  ;  and 
not only were the Welsh people stupid enough to believe 
him ,  but ,  even Henry believed him too  ;  for ,  making three 
expeditions into Wales ,  and being three times driven back 
by the wildness of the country ,  the bad weather ,  and the 
skill of Glendower ,  he thought he was defeated by the 
Welshmans magic arts .  However ,  he took Lord Grey and 
Sir Edmund Mortimer ,  prisoners ,  and allowed the relatives 
of Lord Grey to ransom him ,  but would not extend such 
favour to Sir Edmund Mortimer .  Now ,  Henry Percy ,  
called Hotspur ,  son of the Earl of Northumberland ,  who 
was married to Mortimers sister ,  is supposed to have taken 
offence at this  ;  and ,  therefore ,  in conjunction with his 
father and some others ,  to have joined Owen Glendower ,  and 
risen against Henry .  It is by no means clear that this was 
the real cause of the conspiracy  ;  but perhaps it was made 
the pretext .  It was formed ,  and was very powerful  ;  in -  
cluding Scroop ,  Archbishop of York ,  and the Earl op 
Douglas ,  a powerful and brave Scottish nobleman .  The 
King was prompt and active ,  and the two armies met at 
Shrewsbury .  

There were about fourteen thousand men in each .  The 
old Earl of Northumberland being sick ,  the rebel forces were 
led by his son .  The King wore plain armour to deceive the 
enemy  ;  and four noblemen ,  with the same object ,  wore the 
royal arms .  The rebel charge was so furious ,  that every one 
of those gentlemen was killed ,  the royal standard was beaten 
down ,  and the young Prince of Wales was severely wounded 
in the face .  But he was one of the bravest and best soldiers 
that ever lived ,  and he fought so well ,  and the Kings troops 
were so encouraged by his bold example ,  that they rallied 
immediately ,  and cut the enemys forces all to pieces .  Hot -  
spur was killed by an arrow in the brain ,  and the rout was 
so complete that the whole rebellion was struck down by 
this one blow .  The Earl of Northumberland surrendered 
himself soon after hearing of the death of his son ,  and 
received a pardon for all his offences .  

There were some lingerings of rebellion yet : Owen Glen -  
dower being retired to Wales ,  and a preposterous story 
being spread among the ignorant people that King Richard 
was still alive .  How they could have believed such nonsense 
it is difficult to imagine  ;  but they certainly did suppose that 
the Court fool of the late King ,  who was something like 



HENRY THE FOURTH I 95 

him ,  was he ,  himself  ;  so that it seemed as if ,  after giving 
so much trouble to the country in his life ,  he was still to 
trouble it after his death .  This was not the worst .  The 
young Earl of March and his brother were stolen out of 
Windsor Castle .  Being retaken ,  and being found to have 
been spirited away by one Lady Spencer ,  she accused her 
own brother ,  that Earl of Rutland who was in the former 
conspiracy and was now Duke of York ,  of being in the plot .  
For this he was ruined in fortune ,  though not put to death  ;  
and then another plot arose among the old Earl of Northum -  
berland ,  some other lords ,  and that same Scroop ,  Archbishop 
of York ,  who was with the rebels before .  These conspirators 
caused a writing to be posted on the church doors ,  accusing 
the King of a variety of crimes  ;  but ,  the King being eager 
and vigilant to oppose them ,  they were all taken ,  and the 
Archbishop was executed .  This was the first time that 
a great churchman had been slain by the law in England  ;  
but the King was resolved that it should be done ,  and done 
it was .  

The next most remarkable event of this time was the 
seizure ,  by Henry ,  of the heir to the Scottish throne — 
James ,  a boy of nine years old .  He had been put aboard -  
ship by his father ,  the Scottish King Robert ,  to save him 
from the designs of his uncle ,  when ,  on his way to France ,  
he was accidentally taken by some English cruisers .  He 
remained a prisoner in England for nineteen years ,  and 
became in his prison a student and a famous poet .  

With the exception of occasional troubles with the Welsh 
and with the French ,  the rest of King Henrys reign was 
quiet enough .  But ,  the King was far from happy ,  and 
probably was troubled in his conscience by knowing that he 
had usurped the crown ,  and had occasioned the death of his 
miserable cousin .  The Prince of Wales ,  though brave and 
generous ,  is said to have been wild and dissipated ,  and even 
to have drawn his sword on Gascoigne ,  the Chief Justice 
of the Kings Bench ,  because he was firm in dealing im -  
partially with one of his dissolute companions .  Upon this 
the Chief Justice is said to have ordered him immediately 
to prison  ;  the Prince of Wales is said to have submitted 
with a good grace  ;  and the King is said to have exclaimed ,  
 "  Happy is the monarch who has so just a judge ,  and a son 
so willing to obey the laws .  "  This is all veiy doubtful ,  and 
so is another story  ( of which Shakespeare has made beautiful 



196 A CHILDS HISTORY OF ENGLAND 

use )  ,  that the Prince once took the crown out of his fathers 
chamber as he was sleeping ,  and tried it on his own head .  

The Kings health sank more and more ,  and he became 
subject to violent eruptions on the face and to bad epileptic 
fits ,  and his spirits sank every day .  At last ,  as he was 
praying before the shrine of St .  Edward at Westminster 
Abbey ,  he was seized with a terrible fit ,  and was carried into 
the Abbots chamber ,  where he presently died .  It had been 
foretold that he would die at Jerusalem ,  which certainly is 
not .  and never was ,  Westminster .  But ,  as the Abbots room 
had long been called the Jerusalem chamber ,  people said it 
was all the same thing ,  and were quite satisfied with the 
prediction .  

The King died on the 20th of March ,  1413 ,  in the forty -  
seventh year of his age ,  and the fourteenth of his reign .  He 
was buried in Canterbury Cathedral .  He had been twice 
married ,  and had ,  by his first wife ,  a family of four sons 
and two daughters .  Considering his duplicity before he 
came to the throne ,  his unjust seizure of it ,  and above all ,  
his making that monstrous law for the burning of what the 
priests called heretics ,  he was a reasonably good king ,  as 
kings went .  



CHAPTER XXI 

ENGLAND UNDER HENRY THE FIFTH 

First Part .  

The Prince of Wales began his reign like a generous and 
honest man .  He set the young Earl of March free  ;  he 
restored their estates and their honours to the Percy family ,  
who had lost them by their rebellion against his father  ;  he 
ordered the imbecile and unfortunate Richard to be honour -  
ably buried among the Kings of England  ;  and he dismissed 
all his wild companions ,  with assurances that they should 
not want ,  if they would resolve to be steady ,  faithful ,  and 
true .  

It is much easier to burn men than to burn their opinions  ;  
and those of the Lollards were spreading every day .  The 
Lollards were represented by the priests — probably falsely 
for the most part — to entertain treasonable designs against 
the new King  ;  and Henry ,  suffering himself to be worked 
upon by these representations ,  sacrificed his friend Sir John 
Oldcastle ,  the Lord Cobham ,  to them ,  after trying in vain 
to convert him by arguments .  He was declared guilty ,  
as the head of the sect ,  and sentenced to the flames  ;  but 
he escaped from the Tower before the day of execution  ( post -  
poned for fifty days by the King himself )  ,  and summoned 
the Lollards to meet him near London on a certain day .  So 
the priests told the King ,  at least .  I doubt whether there 
was any conspiracy beyond such as was got up by their 
agents .  On the day appointed ,  instead of five - and - twenty 
thousand men ,  under the command of Sir John Oldcastle ,  
in the meadows of St .  Giles ,  the King found only eighty 
men ,  and no Sir John at all .  There was ,  in another place ,  
an addle - headed brewer ,  who had gold trappings to his horses ,  
and a pair of gilt spurs in his breast — expecting to be made 
a knight next day by Sir John ,  and so to gain the right to 
wear them — but there was no Sir John ,  nor did anybody 
give information respecting him ,  though the King offered 



198 A CHILDS HISTORY OF ENGLAND 

great rewards for such intelligence .  Thirty of these un -  
fortunate Lollards were hanged and drawn immediately ,  and 
were then burnt ,  gallows and all  ;  and the various prisons 
in and around London were crammed full of others .  Some 
of these unfortunate men made various confessions of treason -  
able designs  ;  but ,  such confessions were easily got ,  under 
torture and the fear of fire ,  and are veiy little to be trusted .  
To finish the sad story of Sir John Oldcastle at once ,  I may 
mention that he escaped into Wales ,  and remained there 
safely ,  for four years .  When discovered by Lord Powis ,  it 
is very doubtful if he would have been taken alive — so great 
was the old soldiers bravery — if a miserable old woman had 
not come behind him and broken his legs with a stool .  He 
was earried to London in a horse - litter ,  was fastened by an 
iron chain to a gibbet ,  and so roasted to death .  

To make the state of France as plain as I can in a few 
words ,  I should tell you that the Duke of Orleans ,  and the 
Duke of Burgundy ,  commonly called  " John without fear ,  "  
had had a grand reconciliation of their quarrel in the last 
reign ,  and had appeared to be quite in a heavenly state of 
mind .  Immediately after which ,  on a Sunday ,  in the public 
streets of Paris ,  the Duke of Orleans was murdered by 
a party of twenty men ,  set on by the Duke of Burgundy — 
according to his own deliberate confession .  The widow of 
King Richard had been married in France to the eldest son 
of the Duke of Orleans .  The poor mad King was quite 
powerless to help her ,  and the Duke of Burgundy became 
the real master of France .  Isabella dying ,  her husband 
 ( Duke of Orleans since the death of his father )  married the 
daughter of the Count of Armagnac ,  who ,  being a much 
abler man than his young son - in - law ,  headed his party  ;  
thence called after him Armagnacs .  Thus ,  France was now 
in this terrible condition ,  that it had in it the party of the 
Kings son ,  the Dauphin Louis  ;  the party of the Duke of 
Burgundy ,  who was the father of the Dauphins ill - used 
wife  ;  and the party of the Armagnacs  ;  all hating each 
other  ;  all fighting together  ;  all composed of the most de -  
praved nobles that the earth has ever known  ;  and all 
tearing unhappy France to pieces .  

The late King had watched these dissensions from England ,  
sensible  ( like the French people )  that no enemy of France 
could injure her more than her own nobility .  The present 
King now advanced a claim to the French throne .  His 



HENRY THE FIFTH T99 

demand being ,  of course ,  refused ,  he reduced his proposal to 
a certain large amount of French territory ,  and to demanding 
the French princess ,  Catherine ,  in marriage ,  with a fortune 
of two millions of golden crowns .  He was offered less 
territory and fewer crowns ,  and no princess  ;  but he called 
his ambassadors home and prepared for war .  Then ,  he 
proposed to take the princess with one million of crowns .  
The French Court replied that he should have the princess 
with two hundred thousand crowns less  ;  he said this would 
not do  ( he had never seen the princess in his life )  ,  and 
assembled his army at Southampton .  There was a short 
plot at home just at that time ,  for deposing him ,  and making 
the Earl of March king  ;  but the conspirators were all 
speedily condemned and executed ,  and the King embarked 
for France .  

It is dreadful to observe how long a bad example will be 
followed  ;  but ,  it is encouraging to know that a good example 
is never thrown away .  The Kings first act on disembarking 
at the mouth of the river Seine ,  three miles from Harfleur ,  
was to imitate his father ,  and to proclaim his solemn orders 
that the lives and property of the peaceable inhabitants 
should be respected on pain of death .  It is agreed by French 
writers ,  to his lasting renown ,  that even while his soldiers 
were suffering the greatest distress from ,  want of food ,  these 
commands were rigidly obeyed .  

With an army in all of thirty thousand men ,  he besieged 
the town of Harfleur both by sea and land for five weeks  ;  
at the end of which time the town surrendered ,  and the 
inhabitants were allowed to depart with only fivepence 
each ,  and a part of their clothes .  All the rest of their 
possessions was divided amongst the English army .  But ,  
that army suffered so much ,  in spite of its successes ,  from 
disease and privation ,  that it was already reduced one half .  
Still ,  the King was determined not to retire until he had 
struck a greater blow .  Therefore ,  against the advice of all 
his counsellors ,  he moved on with his little force towards 
Calais .  When he came up to the river Somme he was 
unable to cross ,  in consequence of the fort being fortified  ;  
and ,  as the English moved up the left bank of the river 
looking for a crossing ,  the French ,  who had broken all the 
bridges ,  moved up the right bank ,  watching them ,  and 
waiting to attack them when they should tiy to pass it .  
At last the English found a crossing and got safely over .  



200 A CHILD S HISTOKY OF ENGLAND 

The French held a council of war at Eouen ,  resolved to 
give the English battle ,  and sent heralds to King Henry 
to know by which road he was going .   " By the road that 
will take me straight to Calais  !   "  said the King ,  and sent 
them away with a present of a hundred crowns .  

The English moved on ,  until they beheld the French ,  
and then the King gave orders to form in line of battle .  
The French not coming on ,  the army broke up after 
remaining in battle array till night ,  and got good rest and 
refreshment at a neighbouring village .  The French were 
now all lying in another village ,  through which they knew 
the English must pass .  They were resolved that the 
English should begin the battle .  The English had no 
means of retreat ,  if their King had any such intention  ;  
and so the two armies passed the night ,  close together .  

To understand these armies well ,  you must bear in mind 
that the immense French army had ,  among its notable 
persons ,  almost the whole of that wicked nobility ,  whose 
debauchery had made France a desert  ;  and so besotted 
were they by pride ,  and by contempt for the common 
people ,  that they had scarcely any bowmen  ( if indeed they 
had any at all )  in their whole enormous number: which ,  
compared with the English army ,  was at least as six to 
one .  For these proud fools had said that the bow was 
not a fit weapon for knightly hands ,  and that France must 
be defended by gentlemen only .  We shall see ,  presently ,  
what hand the gentlemen made of it .  

Now ,  on the English side ,  among the little force ,  there 
was a good proportion of men who were not gentlemen by 
any means ,  but who were good stout archers for all that .  
Among them ,  in the morning — having slept little at night ,  
while the French were carousing and making sure of victory 
— the King rode ,  on a grey horse  ;  wearing on his head 
a helmet of shining steel ,  surmounted by a crown of 
gold ,  sparkling with precious stones  ;  and bearing over 
his armour ,  embroidered together ,  the arms of England 
and the arms of France .  The archers looked at the shining 
helmet and the crown of gold and the sparkling jewels ,  and 
admired them all  ;  but ,  what they admired most was the 
Kings cheerful face ,  and his bright blue eye ,  as he told 
them that ,  for himself ,  he had made up his mind to conquer 
there or to die there ,  and that England should never have 
a ransom to pay for Jiim .  There was one brave knight who 



HENRY THE FIFTH 201 

chanced to say that he wished some of the many gallant 
gentlemen and good soldiers ,  who were then idle at home 
in England ,  were there to increase their numbers .  But 
the King told him that ,  for his part ,  he did not wish for 
one more man .   " The fewer we have ,  "  said he ,   " the 
greater will be the honour we shall win  !   "  His men ,  being 
now all in good heart ,  were refreshed with bread and wine ,  
and heard prayers ,  and waited quietly for the French .  The 
King waited for the French ,  because they were drawn up 
thirty deep  ( the little English force was only three deep )  ,  
on very difficult and heavy ground  ;  and he knew that when 
they moved ,  there must be confusion among them .  

As they did not move ,  he sent off two parties : — one to 
lie concealed in a wood on the left of the French : the other ,  
to set fire to some houses behind the French after the battle 
should be begun .  This was scarcely done ,  when three of 
the proud French gentlemen ,  who were to defend their 
country without any help from the base peasants ,  came 
riding out ,  calling upon the English to surrender .  The 
King warned those gentlemen himself to retire with all 
speed if they cared for their lives ,  and ordered the English 
banners to advance .  Upon that ,  Sir Thomas Erpingham ,  
a great English general ,  who commanded the archers ,  threw 
his truncheon into the air ,  joyfully ,  and all the English 
men ,  kneeling down upon the ground and biting it as if 
they took possession of the country ,  rose up with a great 
shout and fell upon the French .  

Every archer was furnished with a great stake tipped 
with iron  ;  and his orders were ,  to thrust this stake into 
the ground ,  to discharge his arrow ,  and then to fall back ,  
when the French horsemen came on .  As the haughty 
French gentlemen ,  who were to break the English archers 
and utterly destroy them with their knightly lances ,  came 
riding up ,  they were received with such a blinding storm of 
arrows ,  that they broke and turned .  Horses and men rolled 
over one another ,  and the confusion was terrific .  Those 
who rallied and charged the archers got among the stakes 
on slippery and boggy ground ,  and were so bewildered that 
the English archers — who wore no armour ,  and even took 
off their leathern coats to be more active — cut them to 
pieces ,  root and branch .  Only three French horsemen got 
within the stakes ,  and those were instantly despatched .  
All this time the dense French army ,  being in armour ,  were 
i .  u 3 



202 A CHILDS HISTORY OF ENGLAND 

sinking knee - deep into the mire  ;  while the light English 
archers ,  half - naked ,  were as fresh and active as if they were 
lighting on a marble floor .  

But now ,  the second division of the French coming to the 
relief of the first ,  closed up in a firm mass  ;  the English ,  
headed by the King ,  attacked them  ;  and the deadliest part 
of the battle began .  The Kings brother ,  the Duke of 
Clarence ,  was struck down ,  and numbers of the French 
surrounded him  ;  but .  King Henry ,  standing over the body ,  
fought like a lion until they were beaten off .  

Presently ,  came up a band of eighteen French knights ,  
bearing the banner of a certain French lord ,  who had sworn 
to kill or take the English King .  One of them struck him 
such a blow with a battle - axe that he reeled and fell upon 
his knees  ;  but ,  his faithful men .  immediately closing round 
him ,  killed every one of those eighteen knights ,  and so that 
French lord never kept his oath .  

The French Duke of Alencon ,  seeing this ,  made a desperate 
charge ,  and cut his way close up to the Royal Standard of 
England .  He beat down the Duke of York ,  who Avas 
standing near it  ;  and ,  when the King came to his rescue ,  
struck off a piece of the crown he wore .  But .  he never 
struck another blow in this world  ;  for .  even as he was in 
the act of saying who he was ,  and that he surrendered to 
the King  ;  and even as the King stretched out his hand 
to give him a safe and honourable accejitance of the offer  ;  
he fell dead ,  pierced by innumerable wounds .  

The death of this nobleman decided the battle .  The 
third division of the French army ,  which had never struck 
a blow yet ,  and which was ,  in itself ,  more than double the 
whole English power ,  broke and fled .  At this time of 
the fight ,  the English ,  who as yet had made no prisoners ,  
began to take them in immense numbers ,  and were still 
occupied in doing so ,  or in killing those who would not 
surrender ,  when a great noise arose in the rear of the 
French — their flying banners were seen to stop — and King 
Henry ,  supposing a great reinforcement to have arrived ,  
gave orders that all the prisoners should be put to death .  
As soon ,  however ,  as it was found that the noise was only 
occasioned by a body of plundering peasants ,  the terrible 
massacre was stopped .  

Then King Henry called to him the French herald ,  and 
asked him to whom the victory belonged .  



HENRY THE FIFTH 203 

The herald replied ,   "  To the King of England .  "  

 " We have not made this havoc and slaughter .  "  said the 
King .   "  It is the wrath of Heaven on the sins of France .  
What is the name of that castle yonder ?  "  

The herald answered him ,   " My lord ,  it is the castle of 
Azincourt .  "  

Said the King ,  From henceforth this battle shall be 
known to posterity ,  by the name of the battle of Azin -  
court .  "  

Our English historians have made it Agincourt ;  but .  
under that name ,  it will ever be famous in English annals .  

The loss upon the French side was enormous .  Three 
Dukes were killed ,  two more were taken prisoners ,  seven 
Counts were killed ,  three more were taken prisoners ,  and 
ten thousand knights and gentlemen were slain upon the 
field .  The English loss amounted to sixteen hundred men ,  
among whom were the Duke of York and the Earl of 
Suffolk .  

War is a dreadful thing  ;  and it is appalling to know 
how the English were obliged ,  next morning ,  to kill those 
prisoners mortally wounded ,  who yet writhed in agony 
upon the ground  ;  how the dead upon the French side were 
stripped by their own countiymen and countrywomen ,  and 
afterwards buried in great pits  ;  how the dead upon the 
English side were piled up in a great barn ,  and how their 
bodies and the barn were all burned together .  It is in such 
things ,  and in many more much too horrible to relate ,  that 
the real desolation and wickedness of war consist .  Nothing 
can make war otherwise than horrible .  But the dark side 
of it was little thought of and soon forgotten  ;  and it cast 
no shade of trouble on the English people ,  except on those 
who had lost friends or relations in the fight .  They 
welcomed their King home with shouts of rejoicing ,  and 
plunged into the water to bear him ashore on their shoulders ,  
and flocked out in crowds to welcome him in every town 
through which he passed ,  and hung rich carpets and 
tapestries out of the windows ,  and strewed the streets 
with flowers ,  and made the fountains run with wine ,  as 
the great field of Agincourt had run with blood .  



204 A CHILD S HISTORY OF ENGLAND 

Second Part .  

That proud and wicked French nobility who dragged their 
country to destruction ,  and who were every day and eveiy 
year regarded with deeper hatred and detestation in the 
hearts of the French people ,  learnt nothing ,  even from 
the defeat of Agincourt .  So far from uniting against the 
common enemy ,  they became ,  among themselves ,  more 
violent ,  more bloody ,  and more false — if that were possible 
— than they had been before .  The Count of Armagnac 
persuaded the French king to plunder of her treasures 
Queen Isabella of Bavaria ,  and to make her a prisoner .  
She .  who had hitherto been the bitter enemy of the Duke 
of Burgundy ,  proposed to join him ,  in revenge .  He carried 
her off to Troyes ,  where she proclaimed herself Regent of 
France ,  and made him her lieutenant .  The Armagnac 
party were at that time possessed of Paris  ;  but ,  one of 
the gates of the city being secretly opened on a certain 
night to a party of the dukes men ,  they got into Pai - is ,  
threw into the prisons all the Armagnacs upon whom they 
could lay their hands ,  and ,  a few nights afterwards ,  with 
the aid of a furious mob of sixty thousand people ,  broke the 
prisons open ,  and killed them all .  The former Dauphin 
was now dead ,  and the Kings third son bore the title .  
Him ,  in the height of this murderous scene ,  a French 
knight hurried out of bed ,  wrapped in a sheet ,  and bore 
away to Poitiers .  So ,  when the revengeful Isabella and 
the Duke of Burgundy entered Paris in triumph after the 
slaughter of their enemies ,  the Dauphin was proclaimed at 
Poitiers as the real Regent .  

King Henry had not been idle since his victory of Agin -  
court ,  but had repulsed a brave attempt of the French to 
recover Harfleur  ;  had gradually concmered a great part of 
Normandy  ;  and ,  at this crisis of affairs ,  took the important 
town of Rouen ,  after a siege of half a year .  This great loss 
so alarmed the French ,  that the Duke of Burgundy proposed 
that a meeting to treat of peace should be held between the 
French and the English kings in a plain by the river Seine .  
On the appointed day ,  King Henry appeared there ,  with his 
two brothers ,  Clarence and Gloucester ,  and a thousand men .  
The unfortunate French King ,  being more mad than usual 
that day ,  could not come  ;  but the Queen came ,  and with 
her the Princess Catherine : who was a very lovely creature ,  



HENRY THE FIFTH 205 

and who made a real impression on King Henry ,  now that 
he saw her for the first time .  This was the most important 
circumstance that arose out of the meeting .  

As if it were impossible for a French nobleman of that 
time to be true to his word of honour in anything ,  Henry 
discovered that the Duke of Burgundy was ,  at that very 
moment ,  in secret treaty with the Dauphin  ;  and he there -  
fore abandoned the negotiation .  

The Duke of Burgundy and the Dauphin ,  each of whom 
with the best reason distrusted the other as a noble ruffian 
surrounded by a party of noble ruffians ,  were rather at 
a loss how to proceed after this  ;  but ,  at length they agreed 
to meet ,  on a bridge over the river Yonne ,  where it was 
arranged that there should be two strong gates put up ,  
with an empty space between them  ;  and that the Duke of 
Burgundy should come into that space by one gate ,  with 
ten men only  ;  and that the Dauphin should come into that 
space by the other gate ,  also with ten men ,  and no more .  

So far the Dauphin kept his word ,  but no farther .  
When the Duke of Burgundy was on his knee before him 
in the act of speaking ,  one of the Dauphins noble ruffians 
cut the said duke down with a small axe ,  and others speedily 
finished him .  

It was in vain for the Dauphin to pretend that this base 
murder was not done with his consent  ;  it was too bad ,  
even for France ,  and caused a general horror .  The dukes 
heir hastened to make a treaty with King Henry ,  and the 
French Queen engaged that her husband should consent 
to it ,  whatever it was .  Henry made peace ,  on condition of 
receiving the Princess Catherine in marriage ,  and being 
made Kegent of France during the rest of the Kings life -  
time ,  and succeeding to the French crown at his death .  
He was soon married to the beautiful Princess ,  and took 
her proudly home to England ,  where she was crowned with 
great honour and glory .  

This peace was called the Perpetual Peace  ;  we shall soon 
see how long it lasted .  It gave great satisfaction to the 
French people ,  although they were so poor and miserable ,  
that ,  at the time of the celebration of the Royal marriage ,  
numbers of them were dying with starvation ,  on the dung -  
hills in the streets of Pains .  There was some resistance on 
the part of the Dauphin in some few parts of France ,  but 
King Henry beat it all down .  



206 A CHILDS HISTORY OF ENGLAND 

And now ,  with his great possessions in France secured ,  
and his beautiful wife to cheer him ,  and a son born to give 
him greater happiness ,  all appeared bright before him .  
But ,  in the fulness of his triumph and the height of his 
power ,  Death came upon him ,  and his day was done .  
When he fell ill at Vincennes ,  and found that he could not 
recover ,  he was veiy calm and quiet ,  and spoke serenely to 
those who wept around his bed .  His wife and child ,  he 
said ,  he left to the loving care of his brother the Duke of 
Bedford ,  and his other faithful nobles .  He gave them his 
advice that England should establish a friendship with the 
new Duke of Burgundy ,  and offer him the regency of 
France  ;  that it should not set free the royal princes who 
had been taken at Agincourt  ;  and that ,  whatever quarrel 
might arise with France ,  England should never make peace 
without holding Normandy .  Then ,  he laid down his head ,  
and asked the attendant priests to chant the penitential 
psalms .  Amid which solemn sounds ,  on the thirty - first of 
August ,  one thousand four hundred and twenty - two ,  in 
only the thirty - fourth year of his age and the tenth of his 
reign ,  King Henry the Fifth passed away .  

Slowly and mournfully they carried his embalmed body 
in a procession of great state to Paris ,  and thence to Kouen 
where his Queen was : from whom the sad intelligence of 
his death was concealed until he had been dead some days .  
Thence ,  lying on a bed of crimson and gold ,  with a golden 
crown upon the head ,  and a golden ball and sceptre lying 
in the nerveless hands ,  they carried it to Calais ,  with such 
a great retinue as seemed to dye the road black .  The King 
of Scotland acted as chief mourner ,  all the Koyal Household 
followed ,  the knights wore black armour and black plumes 
of feathers ,  crowds of men bore torches ,  making the night 
as light as day  ;  and the widowed Princess followed last of 
all .  At Calais there was a fleet of ships to bring the funeral 
host to Dover .  And so ,  by way of London Bridge ,  where 
the service for the dead was chanted as it passed along ,  
they brought the body to Westminster Abbey ,  and there 
buried it with great respect .  



CHAPTER XXII 

ENGLAND UNDER HENRY THE SIXTH 

Part the First .  

It had been the wish of the late King ,  that while his infant 
son King Henry the Sixth ,  at this time only nine months 
old ,  was under age ,  the Duke of Gloucester should be ap -  
pointed Regent .  The English Parliament ,  however ,  pre -  
ferred to appoint a Council of Regency ,  with the Duke of 
Bedford at its head : to be represented ,  in his absence only ,  
by the Duke of Gloucester .  The Parliament would seem 
to have been wise in this ,  for Gloucester soon showed him -  
self to be ambitious and troublesome ,  and ,  in the gratification 
of his own personal schemes ,  gave dangerous offence to the 
Duke of Burgundy ,  which was with difficulty adjusted .  

As that duke declined the Regency of France ,  it was be -  
stowed by the poor French King upon the Duke of Bedford .  
But ,  the French King dying within two months ,  the 
Dauphin instantly asserted his claim to the French throne ,  
and was actually crowned under the title of Charles the 
Seventh .  The Duke of Bedford ,  to be a match for him ,  
entered into a friendly league with the Dukes of Burgundy 
and Brittany ,  and gave them his two sisters in marriage .  
War with France was immediately renewed ,  and the Per -  
petual Peace came to an untimely end .  

In the first campaign ,  the English ,  aided by this alliance ,  
were speedily successful .  As Scotland ,  however ,  had sent 
the French five thousand men ,  and might send more ,  or 
attack the North of England while England was busy with 
France ,  it was considered that it would be a good thing to 
offer the Scottish King ,  James ,  who had been so long 
imprisoned ,  his liberty ,  on his paying forty thousand pounds 
for his board and lodging during nineteen years ,  and 
engaging to forbid his subjects from serving under the 
flag of France .  It is pleasant to know ,  not only that the 



208 A CHILDS HISTORY OF ENGLAND 

amiable captive at last regained his freedom upon these 
terms ,  hut ,  that he married a noble English lady ,  with 
whom he had been long in love ,  and became an excellent 
King .  I am afraid we have met with some Kings in this 
history ,  and shall meet with some more ,  who would have 
been very much the better ,  and would have left the world 
much happier ,  if they had been imprisoned nineteen 
years too .  

In the second campaign ,  the English gained a considerable 
victory at Verneuil ,  in a battle which was chiefly remark -  
able ,  otherwise ,  for their resorting to the odd expedient of 
tying their baggage - horses together by the heads and tails ,  
and jumbling them up with the baggage ,  so as to convert 
them into a sort of live fortification — which was found 
useful to the troops ,  but which I should think was not 
agreeable to the horses .  For three years afterwards very 
little was done ,  owing to both sides being too poor for war ,  
which is a very expensive entertainment  ;  but ,  a council 
was then held in Paris ,  in which it was decided to lay 
siege to the town of Orleans ,  which was a place of great 
importance to the Dauphins cause .  An English army of 
ten thousand men was despatched on this service ,  under 
the command of the Earl of Salisbury ,  a general of fame .  
He being unfortunately killed early in the siege ,  the Earl 
of Suffolk took his place  ;  under whom  ( reinforced by 
Sir John Falstaff ,  who brought up four hundred waggons 
laden with salt herrings and other provisions for the troops ,  
and ,  beating off the French who tried to intercept him ,  
came victorious out of a hot skirmish ,  which was afterwards 
called in jest the Battle of the Herrings )  the town of 
Orleans was so completely hemmed in ,  that the besieged 
proposed to yield it up to their countryman the Duke of 
Burgundy .  The English general ,  however ,  replied that his 
English men had won it ,  so far ,  by their blood and valour ,  
and that his English men must have it .  There seemed to 
be no hope for the town ,  or for the Dauphin ,  who was so 
dismayed that he even thought of flying to Scotland or to 
Spain — when a peasant girl rose up and changed the whole 
state of affairs .  

The story of this peasant girl I have now to tell .  



HENRY THE SIXTH 209 

Part the Second ,  
the story of joan of arc .  

In a remote village among some wild hills in the province 
of Lorraine ,  there lived a countryman whose name was 
Jacques dArc .  He had a daughter ,  Joan of Arc ,  who 
was at this time in her twentieth year .  She had been 
a solitary girl from her childhood  ;  she had often tended 
sheep and cattle for whole days where no human figure 
was seen or human voice heard  ;  and she had often knelt ,  
for hours together ,  in the gloomy empty little village chapel ,  
looking up at the altar and at the dim lamp burning before 
it ,  until she fancied that she saw shadowy figures standing 
there ,  and even that she heard them speak to her .  The 
people in that part of France were very ignorant and super -  
stitious ,  and they had many ghostly tales to tell about what 
they had dreamed ,  and what they saw among the lonely 
hills when the clouds and the mists were resting on them .  
So ,  they easily believed that Joan saw strange sights ,  and 
they whispered among themselves that angels and spirits 
talked to her .  

At last ,  Joan told her father that she had one day been 
surprised by a great unearthly light ,  and had afterwards 
heard a solemn voice ,  which said it was Saint Michaels 
voice ,  telling her that she was to go and help the Dauphin .  
Soon after this  ( she said )  ,  Saint Catherine and Saint Margaret 
had appeared to her with sparkling crowns upon their heads ,  
and had encouraged her to be virtuous and resolute .  These 
visions had returned sometimes  ;  but the Voices very often  ;  
and the voices always said ,  Joan ,  thou art appointed by 
Heaven to go and help the Dauphin  !   "  She almost always 
heard them while the chapel bells were ringing .  

There is no doubt ,  now ,  that Joan believed she saw and 
heard these things .  It is very well known that such delu -  
sions are a disease which is not by any means uncommon .  
It is probable enough that there were figures of Saint 
Michael ,  and Saint Catherine ,  and Saint Margaret ,  in the 
little chapel  ( where they would be veiy likely to have 
shining crowns upon their heads )  ,  and that they first gave 
Joan the idea of those three personages .  She had long been 
a moping ,  fanciful girl ,  and ,  though she was a very good 
girl ,  I dare say she was a little vain ,  and wishful for 
notoriety .  



2TO A CHILDS HISTORY OF ENGLAND 

Her father ,  something wiser than his neighbours ,  said ,  
 "  I tell thee ,  Joan ,  it is thy fancy .  Thou hadst better have 
a kind husband to take care of thee ,  girl ,  and work to 
employ thy mind  !   "  But Joan told him in reply ,  that she 
had taken a vow never to have a husband ,  and that she must 
go as Heaven directed her ,  to help the Dauphin .  

It happened ,  unfortunately for her fathers persuasions ,  
and most unfortunately for the poor girl ,  too ,  that a party 
of the Dauphins enemies found their way into the village 
while Joans disorder was at this point ,  and burnt the 
chapel ,  and drove out the inhabitants .  The cruelties she 
saw committed ,  touched Joans heart and made her worse .  
She said that the voices and the figures were now continually 
with her  ;  that they told her she was the girl who ,  according 
to an old prophecy ,  was to deliver France  ;  and she must go 
and help the Dauphin ,  and must remain with him until he 
should be crowned at Kheims: and that she must travel 
a long way to a certain lord named Baudricourt ,  who could 
and would ,  bring her into the Dauphins presence .  

As her father still said ,   " I tell thee ,  Joan ,  it is thy 
fancy ,  "  she set off to find out this lord ,  accompanied by an 
uncle ,  a poor village wheelwright and cart - maker ,  who 
believed in the reality of her visions .  They travelled 
a long way and went on and on ,  over a rough country ,  full of 
the Duke of Burgundys men ,  and of all kinds of robbers and 
marauders ,  until they came to where this lord was .  

When his servants told him that there was a poor peasant 
girl named Joan of Arc ,  accompanied by nobody but an old 
village wheelwright and cart - maker ,  who wished to see him 
because she was commanded to help the Dauphin and save 
France ,  Baudricourt burst out a - laughing ,  and bade them 
send the girl away .  But ,  he soon heard so much about her 
lingering in the town ,  and praying in the churches ,  and 
seeing visions ,  and doing harm to no one ,  that he sent for 
her ,  and questioned her .  As she said the same things after 
she had been well sprinkled with holy water as she had 
said before the sprinkling .  Baudricourt began to think there 
might be something in it .  At all events ,  he thought it 
worth while to send her on to the town of Chinon ,  where 
the Dauphin was .  So ,  he bought her a horse ,  and a sword ,  
and gave her two squires to conduct her .  As the Voices 
had told Joan that she was to wear a mans dress ,  now ,  she 
put one on ,  and girded her sword to her side ,  and bound 




JOAN OF A . EC 



HENRY THE SIXTH 213 

spurs to her heels ,  and mounted her horse and rode away 
with her two squires .  As to her uncle the wheelwright ,  
he stood staring at his niece in wonder until she was out of 
sight — as well he might — and then went home again .  The 
best place ,  too .  

Joan and her two squires rode on and on ,  until they came 
to Chinon ,  where she was ,  after some doubt ,  admitted into 
the Dauphins presence .  Picking him out immediately 
from all his court ,  she told him that she came commanded 
by Heaven to subdue his enemies and conduct him to his 
coronation at Eheims .  She also told him  ( or he pretended 
so afterwards ,  to make the greater impression upon his 
soldiers )  a number of his secrets known only to himself ,  
and ,  furthermore ,  she said there was an old ,  old sword in 
the cathedral of Saint Catherine at Fierbois ,  marked with 
five old crosses on the blade ,  which Saint Catherine had 
ordered her to wear .  

Now ,  nobody knew anything about this old ,  old sword ,  
but when the cathedral came to be examined — which was 
immediately done — there ,  sure enough ,  the sword was 
found  !  The Dauphin then required a number of grave 
priests and bishops to give him their opinion whether the 
girl derived her power from good spirits or from evil spirits ,  
which they held prodigiously long debates about ,  in the 
course of which several learned men fell fast asleep and 
snored loudly .  At last ,  when one gruff old gentleman had 
said to Joan ,   "  What language do your Voices speak ?  "  
and when Joan had replied to the gruff old gentleman ,  
 " A pleasanter language than yours ,  "  they agreed that it 
was all correct ,  and that Joan of Arc was inspired from 
Heaven .  This wonderful circumstance put new heart into 
the Dauphins soldiers when they heard of it ,  and dispirited 
the English army ,  who took Joan for a witch .  

So Joan mounted horse again ,  and again rode on and on ,  
until she came to Orleans .  But she rode now ,  as never 
peasant girl had ridden yet .  She rode upon a white war -  
horse ,  in a suit of glittering armour  ;  with the old ,  old 
sword from the cathedral ,  newly burnished ,  in her belt  ;  
with a white flag carried before her ,  upon which were 
a picture of God ,  and the words Jesus Maria .  In this 
splendid state ,  at the head of a great body of troops escort -  
ing provisions of all kinds for the starving inhabitants of 
Orleans ,  she appeared before that beleaguered city .  



214 A CHILDS HISTORY OF ENGLAND 

When the people on the walls beheld her ,  they cried out 
 "  The Maid is come  !  The Maid of the Prophecy is come to 
deliver us  !   "  And this ,  and the sight of the Maid fighting 
at the head of their men ,  made the French so bold ,  and 
made the English so fearful ,  that the English line of forts 
was soon broken ,  the troops and provisions were got into 
the town ,  and Orleans was saved .  

Joan ,  henceforth called The Maid of Orleans ,  remained 
within the walls for a few days ,  and caused letters to be 
thrown over ,  ordering Lord Suffolk and his Englishmen 
to depart from before the town according to the will of 
Heaven .  As the English general very positively declined 
to believe that Joan knew anything about the will of 
Heaven  ( which did not mend the matter with his soldiers ,  
for they stupidly said if she were not inspired she was 
a witch ,  and it was of no use to fight against a witch )  ,  she 
mounted her white war - horse again ,  and ordered her white 
banner to advance .  

The besiegers held the bridge ,  and some strong towers 
upon the bx*idge  ;  and here the Maid of Orleans attacked 
them .  The fight was fourteen hours long .  She planted 
a scaling ladder with her own hands ,  and mounted a tower 
wall ,  but was struck by an English arrow in the neck ,  and 
fell into the ti - ench .  She was carried away and the arrow 
was taken out ,  during which operation she screamed and 
cried with the pain ,  as any other girl might have done  ;  
but presently she said that the Voices were speaking to her 
and soothing her to rest .  After a while ,  she got up ,  and 
was again foremost in the fight .  When the English who 
had seen her fall and supposed her dead ,  saw this ,  they 
were troubled with the strangest fears ,  and some of them 
cried out that they beheld Saint Michael on a white horse 
 ( probably Joan herself )  fighting for the French .  They lost 
the bridge ,  and lost the towers ,  and next day set their chain 
of forts on fire ,  and left the place .  

But as Lord Suffolk himself retired no farther than the 
town of Jaigeau .  which  - was only a few miles off ,  the Maid 
of Orleans besieged him there ,  and he was taken prisoner .  
As the white banner scaled the wall ,  she was struck upon 
the head with a stone ,  and was again tumbled down into 
the ditch  ;  but ,  she only cried all the more ,  as she lay there .  
 "  On ,  on .  my countrymen  !  And fear nothing ,  for the Lord 
hath delivered them into our hands  !   "  After this new 



HENRY THE SIXTH 215 

success of the Maids ,  several other fortresses and places 
which had previously held out against the Dauphin were 
delivered up without a battle  ;  and at Patay she defeated 
the remainder of the English army ,  and set up her victorious 
white banner on a field where twelve hundred Englishmen 
lay dead .  

She now urged the Dauphin  ( who always kept out of the 
way when there was any fighting )  to proceed to Eheims ,  
as the first part of her mission was accomplished  ;  and to 
complete the whole by being crowned there .  The Dauphin 
was in no particular hurry to do this ,  as Eheims was a long 
way off ,  and the English and the Duke of Burgundy were 
still strong in the country through which the road lay .  
However ,  they set forth ,  with ten thousand men .  and again 
the Maid of Orleans rode on and on ,  upon her white war -  
horse ,  and in her shining armour .  Whenever they came to 
a town which yielded readily ,  the soldiers believed in her  ;  
but ,  whenever they came to a town which gave them any 
trouble ,  they began to murmur that she was an impostor .  
The latter was particularly the case at Troyes ,  which finally 
yielded ,  however ,  through the persuasion of one Kichard ,  
a friar of the place .  Friar Kichard was in the old doubt 
about the Maid of Orleans ,  until he had sprinkled her well 
with holy water ,  and had also well sprinkled the threshold 
of the gate by which she came into the city .  Finding that 
it made no change in her or the gate ,  he said ,  as the other 
grave old gentlemen had said ,  that it was all right ,  and 
became her great ally .  

So ,  at last ,  by dint of riding on and on ,  the Maid of 
Orleans ,  and the Dauphin ,  and the ten thousand sometimes 
believing and sometimes unbelieving men ,  came to Eheims .  
And in the great cathedral of Eheims ,  the Dauphin actually 
was crowned Charles the Seventh in a great assembly of the 
people .  Then ,  the Maid ,  who with her white banner stood 
beside the King in that hour of his triumph ,  kneeled down 
upon the pavement at his feet ,  and said ,  with tears ,  that 
what she had been inspired to do ,  was done ,  and that the 
only recompense she asked for ,  was ,  that she should now 
have leave to go back to her distant home ,  and her sturdily 
incredulous father ,  and her first simple escort the village 
wheelwright and cart - maker .  But the King said  " No !  "  
and made her and her family as noble as a King could ,  and 
settled upon her the income of a Count .  



2l6 A CHILDS HISTORY OF ENGLAND 

Ah  !  happy had it been for the Maid of Orleans ,  if she 
had resumed her rustic dress that day ,  and had gone home 
to the little chapel and the wild hills ,  and had forgotten all 
these things ,  and had been a good mans wife ,  and had 
heard no stranger voices than the voices of little children  !  

It was not to be ,  and she continued helping the King 
 ( she did a world for him ,  in alliance with Friar Kichard )  ,  
and trying to improve the lives of the coarse soldiers ,  and 
leading a religious ,  an unselfish ,  and a modest life ,  herself ,  
beyond any doubt .  Still ,  many times she prayed the King 
to let her go home  ;  and once she even took off her bright 
armour and hung it up in a church ,  meaning never to wear 
it more .  But ,  the King always won her back again — while 
she was of any use to him — and so she went on and on and 
on ,  to her doom .  

When the Duke of Bedford ,  who was a very able man ,  
began to be active for England ,  and ,  by bringing the war 
back into France and by holding the Duke of Burgundy to 
his faith ,  to distress and disturb Charles very much ,  Charles 
sometimes asked the Maid of Orleans what the Voices said 
about it ? But ,  the Voices had become  ( very like ordinary 
voices in perplexed times )  contradictory and confused ,  so 
that now they said one thing ,  and now said another ,  and 
the Maid lost credit every day .  Charles marched on Paris ,  
which was opposed to him ,  and attacked the suburb of 
Saint Honore .  In this fight ,  being again struck down into 
the ditch ,  she was abandoned by the whole army .  She lay 
unaided among a heap of dead ,  and crawled out how she 
could .  Then ,  some of her believers went over to an 
opposition Maid ,  Catherine of La Bochelle ,  who said she 
was inspired to tell where there were treasures of buried 
money — though she never did — and then Joan accidentally 
broke the old ,  old sword ,  and others said that her power 
was broken with it .  Finally ,  at the siege of Compiegne ,  
held by the Duke of Burgundy ,  where she did valiant 
service ,  she was basely left alone in a retreat ,  though facing 
about and fighting to the last  ;  and an archer pulled her off 
her horse .  

O the uproar that was made ,  and the thanksgivings that 
were sung ,  about the capture of this one poor country - girl  !  
O the way in which she was demanded to be tried for 
sorcery and heresy ,  and anything else you like ,  by the 
Inquisitor - General of France ,  and by this great man ,  and 



HENRY THE SIXTH 21 7 

by that great man ,  until it is wearisome to think of  !  She 
was bought at last by the Bishop of Beauvais for ten 
thousand francs ,  and was shut up in her narrow prison : 
plain Joan of Arc again ,  and Maid of Orleans no more .  

I should never have done if I were to tell you how they 
had Joan out to examine her .  and cross - examine her ,  and 
re - examine her ,  and worry her into saying anything and 
everything  ;  and how all sorts of scholars and doctors 
bestowed their utmost tediousness upon her .  Sixteen times 
she was brought out and shut up again ,  and worried ,  and 
entrapped ,  and argued with ,  until she was heart - sick of the 
dreary business .  On the last occasion of this kind she was 
brought into a burial - place at Kouen ,  dismally decorated 
with a scaffold ,  and a stake and faggots ,  and the executioner ,  
and a pulpit with a friar therein ,  and an awful sermon ready .  
It is veiy affecting to know that even at that pass the poor 
girl honoured the mean vermin of a King ,  who had so used 
her for his purposes and so abandoned her  ;  and ,  that while 
she had been regardless of reproaches heaped upon herself ,  
she spoke out courageously for him .  

It was natural in one so young to hold to life .  To save 
her life ,  she signed a declaration prepared for her — signed it 
with a cross ,  for she couldnt write — that all her visions and 
Voices had come from the Devil .  Upon her recanting the 
past ,  and protesting that she would never wear a mans 
dress in future ,  she was condemned to imprisonment for 
life ,   " on the bread of sorrow and the water of affliction .  "  

But ,  on the bread of sorrow and the water of affliction ,  
the visions and the Voices soon returned .  It was quite 
natural that they should do so .  for that kind of disease is 
much aggravated by fasting ,  loneliness ,  and anxiety of mind .  
It was not only got out of Joan that she considered herself 
inspired again ,  but ,  she was taken in a mans dress ,  which 
had been left — to entrap her — in her prison ,  and which she 
put on ,  in her solitude  ;  perhaps ,  in remembrance of her 
past glories ,  perhaps ,  because the imaginary Voices told her .  
For this relapse into the sorcery and heresy and anything 
else you like ,  she was sentenced to be burnt to death .  And .  
in the market - place of Rouen ,  in the hideous dress which the 
monks had invented for such spectacles  ;  with priests and 
bishops sitting in a gallery looking on ,  though some had the 
Christian grace to go away ,  unable to endure the infamous 
scene ;  this shrieking girl  - last seen amidst the smoke and 



2l8 A CHILDS HISTORY OF ENGLAND 

fire ,  holding a crucifix between her hands  ;  last heard ,  
calling upon Christ — was burnt to ashes .  They threw 
her ashes into the river Seine  ;  but they will rise against 
her murderers on the last day .  

From the moment of her capture ,  neither the French 
King nor one single man in all his court raised a finger to 
save her .  It is no defence of them that they may have 
never really believed in her ,  or that they may have won 
her victories by their skill and bravery .  The more they 
pretended to believe in her ,  the more they had caused her 
to believe in herself  ;  and she had ever been true to them ,  
ever brave ,  ever nobly devoted .  But ,  it is no wonder ,  that 
they ,  who were in all things false to themselves ,  false to 
one another ,  false to their country ,  false to Heaven ,  false 
to Earth ,  should be monsters of ingratitude and treachery to 
a helpless peasant girl .  

In the picturesque old town of Rouen ,  where weeds and 
grass grow high on the cathedral towers ,  and the venerable 
Norman streets are still warm in the blessed sunlight though 
the monkish fires that once gleamed horribly upon them 
have long grown cold ,  there is a statue of Joan of Aic ,  in 
the scene of her last agony ,  the square to which she has 
given its present name .  I know some statues of modern 
times— even in the Worlds metropolis ,  I think — which 
commemorate less constancy ,  less earnestness ,  smaller claims 
upon the worlds attention ,  and much greater impostors .  



Part the Third .  

Bad deeds seldom prosper ,  happily for mankind  ;  and the 
English cause gained no advantage from the cruel death of 
Joan of Arc .  For a long time ,  the war went heavily on .  
The Duke of Bedford died  ;  the alliance with the Duke of 
Burgundy was broken  ;  and Lord Talbot became a great 
general on the English side in France .  But ,  two of the 
consequences of wars are ,  Famine — because the people 
cannot peacefully cultivate the ground — and Pestilence ,  
which comes of want ,  misery ,  and suffering .  Both these 
horrors broke out in both countries ,  and lasted for two 
wretched years .  Then ,  the war went on again ,  and came 
by slow degrees to be so badly conducted by the English 
government ,  that ,  within twenty years from the execution 



HENRY THE SIXTH 21 9 

of the Maid of Orleans ,  of all the great French conquests ,  
the town of Calais alone remained in English hands .  

While these victories and defeats were taking place in 
the course of time ,  many strange things happened at home .  
The young King ,  as he grew up ,  proved to be veiy unlike 
his great father ,  and showed himself a miserable puny 
creature .  There was no harm in him — he had a great 
aversion to shedding blood : which was something — but ,  
he was a weak ,  silly ,  helpless young man ,  and a mere 
shuttlecock to the great lordly battledores about the Court .  

Of these battledores ,  Cardinal Beaufort ,  a relation of the 
King ,  and the Duke of Gloucester ,  were at first the most 
powerful .  The Duke of Gloucester had a wife ,  who was 
nonsensically accused of practising witchcraft to cause the 
Kings death and lead to her husbands coming to the 
throne ,  he being the next heir .  She was charged with 
having ,  by the help of a ridiculous old woman named 
Margery  ( who was called a witch )  ,  made a little waxen doll 
in the Kings likeness ,  and put it before a slow fire that 
it might gradually melt away .  It was supposed ,  in such 
cases ,  that the death of the person whom the doll was made 
to represent ,  was sure to happen .  Whether the duchess 
was as ignorant as the rest of them ,  and really did make 
such a doll with such an intention ,  I dont know  ;  but ,  you 
and I know very well that she might have made a thousand 
dolls ,  if she had been stupid enough ,  and might have melted 
them all ,  without hurting the King or anybody else .  How -  
ever ,  she was tried for it ,  and so was old Margery ,  and so 
was one of the dukes chaplains ,  who was charged with 
having assisted them .  Both he and Margery Avere put to 
death ,  and the duchess ,  after being taken on foot and 
bearing a lighted candle ,  three times round the City ,  as 
a penance ,  was imprisoned for life .  The duke ,  himself ,  
took all this pretty quietly ,  and made as little stir about 
the matter as if he were rather glad to be rid of the 
duchess .  

But ,  he was not destined to keep himself out of trouble 
long .  The royal shuttlecock being three - and - twenty ,  the 
battledores were very anxious to get him married .  The 
Duke of Gloucester wanted him to marry a daughter of 
the Count of Armagnac  ;  but ,  the Cardinal and the Earl 
of Suffolk were all for Margaret ,  the daughter of the King 
of Sicily ,  who they knew was a resolute ambitious woman 



220 A CHILD S HISTORY OF ENGLAND 

and would govern the King as she chose .  To make friends 
with this lady ,  the Earl of Suffolk ,  who went over to arrange 
the match ,  consented to accept her for the Kings wife 
without any fortune ,  and even to give up the two most 
valuable possessions England then had in France .  So ,  the 
marriage was arranged ,  on terms very advantageous to 
the lady  ;  and Lord Suffolk brought her to England ,  and 
she was married at Westminster .  On what pretence this 
queen and her party charged the Duke of Gloucester with 
high treason within a couple of years ,  it is impossible to 
make out ,  the matter is so confused  ;  but ,  they pretended 
that the Kings life was in danger ,  and they took the duke 
prisoner .  A fortnight afterwards ,  he was found dead in 
bed  ( they said )  ,  and his body was shown to the people ,  and 
Lord Suffolk came in for the best part of his estates .  You 
know by this time how strangely liable state prisoners were 
to sudden death .  

If Cardinal Beaufort had any hand in this matter ,  it did 
him no good ,  for he died within six weeks  ;  thinking it very 
hard and curious — at eighty years old  !  — that he could not 
live to be Pope .  

This was the time when England had completed her loss 
of all her great French conquests .  The people charged the 
loss principally upon the Earl of Suffolk ,  now a duke ,  who 
had made those easy terms about the Koyal Marriage ,  and 
who ,  they believed ,  had even been bought by France .  So 
he was impeached as a traitor ,  on a great number of charges ,  
but chiefly on accusations of having aided the French King ,  
and of designing to make his own son King of England .  
The Commons and the people being violent against him ,  the 
King was made  ( by his friends )  to interpose to save him ,  by 
banishing him for five years ,  and proroguing the Parliament .  
The duke had much ado to escape from a London mob ,  two 
thousand strong ,  who lay in wait for him in St .  Giless 
fields  ;  but ,  he got down to his own estates in Suffolk ,  and 
sailed away from Ipswich .  Sailing across the Channel ,  he 
sent into Calais to know if he might land there  ;  but ,  they 
kept his boat and men in the harbour ,  until an English ship ,  
carrying a hundred and fifty men and called the Nicholas of 
the Tower ,  came alongside his little vessel ,  and ordered him 
on board .   " Welcome ,  traitor ,  as men say ,  was the captains 
grim and not very respectful salutation .  He was kept on 
board ,  a prisoner ,  for eight - and  - forty hours ,  and then a small 



HENKY THE SIXTH 221 

boat appeared rowing toward the ship .  As this boat came 
nearer ,  it was seen to have in it a block ,  a rusty sword ,  and 
an executioner in a black mask .  The duke was handed 
clown into it ,  and there his head was cut off with six strokes 
of the rusty sword .  Then ,  the little boat rowed away to 
Dover beach ,  where the body was cast out ,  and left until 
the duchess claimed it .  By whom ,  high in authority ,  this 
murder was committed ,  has never appeared .  No one was 
ever punished for it .  

There now arose in Kent an Irishman ,  who gave himself 
the name of Mortimer ,  but whose real name was Jack Cade .  
Jack ,  in imitation of Wat Tyler ,  though he was a very 
different and inferior sort of man ,  addressed the Kentish 
men upon their wrongs ,  occasioned by the bad government 
of England ,  among so many battledores and such a poor 
shuttlecock  ;  and the Kentish men rose up to the number of 
twenty thousand .  Their place of assembly was Blackheath ,  
where ,  headed by Jack ,  they put forth two papers ,  which 
they called  " The Complaint of the Commons of Kent ,  "  and 
 " The Bequests of the Captain of the Great Assembly in 
Kent .  "  They then retired to Sevenoaks .  The royal army 
coming up with them here ,  they beat it and killed their 
general .  Then ,  Jack dressed himself in the dead generals 
armour ,  and led his men to London .  

Jack passed into the City from Southwark ,  over the 
bridge ,  and entered it in triumph ,  giving the strictest 
orders to his men not to plunder .  Having made a show 
of his forces there ,  while the citizens looked on quietly ,  he 
went back into Southwark in good order ,  and passed the 
night .  Next day ,  he came back again ,  having got hold in 
the meantime of Lord Say ,  an unpopular nobleman .  Says 
Jack to the Lord Mayor and judges:  " Will you be so good 
as to make a tribunal in Guildhall ,  and try me this noble -  
man ?  "  The court being hastily made ,  he was found guilty ,  
and Jack and his men cut his head off on Cornhill .  They 
also cut off the head of his son - in - law ,  and then went back 
in good order to Southwark again .  

But ,  although the citizens could bear the beheading of an 
unpopular lord ,  they could not bear to have their houses 
pillaged .  And it did so happen that Jack ,  after dinner — 
perhaps he had drunk a little too much — began to plunder 
the house where he lodged  ;  upon which ,  of course ,  his 
men began to imitate him .  Wherefore ,  the Londoners took 



222 A CHILDS HISTORY OF ENGLAND 

counsel with Lord Scales ,  who had a thousand soldiers in 
the Tower ;  and defended London Bridge ,  and kept Jack 
and his people out .  This advantage gained ,  it was resolved 
by divers great men to divide Jacks army in the old way ,  
by making a great many promises on behalf of the state ,  
that were never intended to be performed .  This did divide 
them  ;  some of Jacks men saying that they ought to take 
the conditions which were offered ,  and others saying that 
they ought not ,  for they were only a snare  ;  some going 
home at once  ;  others staying where they were  ;  and all 
doubting and quarrelling among themselves .  

Jack ,  who was in two minds about fighting or accepting 
a pardon ,  and who indeed did both ,  saw at last that there 
was nothing to expect from his men ,  and that it was very 
likely some of them would deliver him up and get a reward 
of a thousand marks ,  which was offered for his apprehension .  
So ,  after they had travelled and quarrelled all the way from 
Southwark to Blackheath ,  and from Blackheath to Rochester ,  
he mounted a good horse and galloped away into Sussex .  
But ,  there galloped after him ,  on a better horse ,  one Alex -  
ander Iden ,  who came up with him ,  had a hard fight with 
him ,  and killed him .  Jacks head was set aloft on London 
Bridge ,  with the face looking towards Blackheath ,  where he 
had raised his flag  ;  and Alexander Iden got the thousand 
marks .  

It is supposed by some ,  that the Duke of York ,  who had 
been removed from a high post abroad through the Queens 
influence ,  and sent out of the way ,  to govern Ireland ,  was at 
the bottom of this rising of Jack and his men ,  because he 
wanted to trouble the government .  He claimed  ( though 
not yet publicly )  to have a better right to the throne than 
Henry of Lancaster ,  as one of the family of the Earl of 
March ,  whom Henry the Fourth had set aside .  Touching 
this claim ,  which ,  being through female relationship ,  was 
not according to the usual descent ,  it is enough to say that 
Henry the Fourth was the free choice of the people and the 
Parliament ,  and that his family had now reigned undisputed 
for sixty years .  The memory of Henry the Fifth was so 
famous ,  and the English people loved it so much ,  that the 
Duke of Yorks claim would ,  perhaps ,  never have been 
thought of  ( it would have been so hopeless )  but for the 
unfortunate circumstance of the present Kings being by 
this time quite an idiot ,  and the country very ill governed .  



HENRY THE SIXTH 223 

These two circumstances gave the Duke of York a power he 
could not otherwise have had .  

Whether the Duke knew anything of Jack Cade ,  or not ,  
he came over from Ireland while Jacks head was on London 
Bridge  ;  being secretly advised that the Queen was setting 
up his enemy ,  the Duke of Somerset ,  against him .  He 
went to Westminster ,  at the head of four thousand men ,  
and on his knees before the King ,  represented to him the 
bad state of the country ,  and petitioned him to summon 
a Parliament to consider it .  This the King promised .  
When the Parliament was summoned ,  the Duke of York 
accused the Duke of Somerset ,  and the Duke of Somerset 
accused the Duke of York  ;  and ,  both in and out of Parlia -  
ment ,  the followers of each party were full of violence and 
hatred towards the other .  At length the Duke of York put 
himself at the head of a large force of his tenants ,  and ,  in 
arms ,  demanded the reformation of the Government .  Being 
shut out of London ,  he encamped at Dartford ,  and the royal 
army encamped at Blackheath .  According as either side 
triumphed ,  the Duke of York was arrested ,  or the Duke 
of Somerset was arrested .  The trouble ended ,  for the 
moment ,  in the Duke of York renewing his oath of allegi -  
ance ,  and going in peace to one of his own castles .  

Half a year afterwards the Queen gave birth to a son ,  
who was very ill received by the people ,  and not believed 
to be the son of the King .  It shows the Duke of York to 
have been a moderate man ,  unwilling to involve England 
in new troubles ,  that he did not take advantage of the 
general discontent at this time ,  but really acted for the 
public good .  He was made a member of the cabinet ,  and 
the King being now so much worse that he could not be 
carried about and shown to the people with any decency ,  
the duke was made Lord Protector of the kingdom ,  until the 
King should recover ,  or the Prince should come of age .  At 
the same time the Duke of Somerset was committed to the 
Tower .  So ,  now the Duke of Somerset was down ,  and 
the Duke of York was up .  By the end of the year ,  how -  
ever ,  the King recovered his memory and some spark of 
sense  ;  upon which the Queen used her power — which 
recovered with him — to get the Protector disgraced ,  and 
her favourite released .  So now the Duke of York was 
down ,  and the Duke of Somerset was up .  

These ducal Ups and downs gradually separated the whole 



224 A CHILDS HISTORY OF ENGLAND 

nation into the two parties of York and Lancaster ,  and led 
to those terrible civil wars long known as the Wars of the 
Red and White Roses ,  because the red rose was the badge 
of the House of Lancaster ,  and the white rose was the 
badge of the House of York .  

The Duke of York ,  joined by some other powerful noble -  
men of the White Rose party ,  and leading a small army ,  
met the King with another small army at St .  Albans ,  and 
demanded that the Duke of Somerset should he given up .  
The poor King ,  being made to say in answer that he would 
sooner die ,  was instantly attacked .  The Duke of Somerset 
was killed ,  and the King himself was wounded in the neck ,  
and took refuge in the house of a poor tanner .  Whereupon ,  
the Duke of York went to him ,  led him with great sub -  
mission to the Abbey ,  and said he was very sorry for what 
had happened .  Having now the King in his possession ,  he 
got a Parliament summoned and himself once more made 
Protector ,  but ,  only for a few months  ;  for ,  on the King 
getting a little better again ,  the Queen and her party got 
him into their possession ,  and disgraced the Duke once 
more .  So ,  now the Duke of York was down again .  

Some of the best men in power ,  seeing the danger of these 
constant changes ,  tried even then to prevent the Red and 
the White Rose Wars .  They brought about a great council 
in London between the two parties .  The White Roses 
assembled in Blackfriars ,  the Red Roses in Whitefriars  ;  
and some good priests communicated between them ,  and 
made the proceedings known at evening to the King and 
the judges .  They ended in a peaceful agreement that there 
should be no more quarrelling  ;  and there was a great royal 
procession to St .  Pauls ,  in which the Queen walked arm - in -  
arm with her old enemy ,  the Duke of Yoik ,  to show the 
people how comfortable they all were .  This state of peace 
lasted half a year ,  when a dispute between the Earl of 
Warwick  ( one of the Dukes powerful friends )  and some 
of the Kings servants at Court ,  led to an attack upon that 
Earl — who was a White Rose — and to a sudden breaking 
out of all old animosities .  So ,  here were greater ups and 
downs than ever .  

There were even greater ups and downs than these ,  soon 
after .  After various battles ,  the Duke of York fled to 
Ireland ,  and his son the Earl of March to Calais ,  with 
their friends the Earls of Salisbury and Warwick : and 



HENRY THE SIXTH 225 

a Parliament was held declaring them all traitors .  Little 
the worse for this ,  the Earl of Warwick presently came 
back ,  landed in Kent ,  was joined by the Archbishop of 
Canterbury and other powerful noblemen and gentlemen ,  
engaged the Kings forces at Northampton ,  signally defeated 
them ,  and took the King himself prisoner ,  who was found 
in his tent .  Warwick would have been glad ,  I dare say ,  to 
have taken the Queen and Prince too ,  but they escaped into 
Wales and thence into Scotland .  

The King was carried by the victorious force straight to 
London ,  and made to call a new Parliament ,  which imme -  
diately declared that the Duke of York and those other 
noblemen were not traitors ,  but excellent subjects .  Then ,  
back comes the Duke from Ireland at the head of five 
hundred horsemen ,  rides from London to Westminster ,  and 
enters the House of Lords .  There ,  he laid his hand upon 
the cloth of gold which covered the empty throne ,  as if he 
had half a mind to sit down in it — but he did not .  On the 
Archbishop of Canterbury asking him if he would visit 
the King ,  who was in his palace close by ,  he replied ,  
 " I know no one in this country ,  my lord ,  who ought not 
to visit me .  "  None of the lords present ,  spoke a single 
word  ;  so ,  the duke went out as he had come in ,  established 
himself royally in the Kings palace ,  and ,  six days after -  
wards ,  sent in to the Lords a formal statement of his claim 
to the throne .  The lords went to the King on this momen -  
tous subject ,  and after a great deal of discussion ,  in which 
the judges and the other law officers were afraid to give an 
opinion on either side ,  the cpiestion was compromised .  It 
was agreed that the present King should retain the crown 
for his life ,  and that it should then pass to the Duke of York 
and his heirs .  

But ,  the resolute Queen ,  determined on asserting her sons 
right ,  would hear of no such thing .  She came from Scotland 
to the north of England ,  where several powerful lords armed 
in her cause .  The Duke of York ,  for his part ,  set off with 
some five thousand men ,  a little time before Christmas Day ,  
one thousand four hundred and sixty ,  to give her battle .  
He lodged at Sandal Castle ,  near Wakefield ,  and the Red 
Roses defied him to come out on Wakefield Green ,  and fight 
them then and there .  His generals said ,  he had best wait 
until his gallant son ,  the Earl of March ,  came up with his 
power  ;  but ,  he was determined to accept the challenge .  He 
1 .  x 



226 A CHILDS HISTORY OF ENGLAND 

did so ,  in an evil hour .  He was hotly pressed on all sides ,  
two thousand of his men lay dead on Wakefield Green ,  and 
he himself was taken prisoner .  They set him down in mock 
state on an ant - hill ,  and twisted grass about his head ,  and 
pretended to pay court to him on their knees ,  saying ,   "  O 
King ,  without a kingdom ,  and Prince without a people ,  we 
hope your gracious Majesty is very well and happy  !   "  They 
did worse than this  ;  they cut his head off ,  and handed it 
on a pole to the Queen ,  who laughed with delight when she 
saw it  ( you recollect their walking so religiously and com -  
fortably to St .  Pauls  !  )  ,  and had it fixed ,  with a paper crown 
upon its head ,  on the walls of York .  The Earl of Salisbury 
lost his head ,  too  ;  and the Duke of Yorks second son ,  a 
handsome boy who was flying with his tutor over Wakefield 
Bridge ,  was stabbed in the heart by a murderous lord — Lord 
Clifford by name — whose father had been killed by the 
White Eoses in the fight at St .  Albans .  There was awful 
sacrifice of life in this battle ,  for no quarter was given ,  and 
the Queen was wild for revenge .  When men unnaturally 
fight against their own countrymen ,  they are always ob -  
served to be more unnaturally cruel and filled with rage 
than they are against any other enemy .  

But ,  Lord Clifford had stabbed the second son of the 
Duke of York — not the first .  The eldest son ,  Edward Earl 
of March ,  was at Gloucester  ;  and ,  vowing vengeance for the 
death of his father ,  his brother ,  and their faithful friends ,  he 
began to march against the Queen .  He had to turn and 
fight a great body of Welsh and Irish first ,  who worried his 
advance .  These he defeated in a great fight at Mortimers 
Cross ,  near Hereford ,  where he beheaded a number of the 
Ked Roses taken in battle ,  in retaliation for the beheading 
of the White Roses at Wakefield .  The Queen had the next 
turn of beheading .  Having moved towards London ,  and 
falling in ,  between St .  Albans and Barnet ,  with the Earl 
of Warwick and the Duke of Norfolk ,  White Roses both ,  
who were there with an army to oppose her ,  and had got 
the King with them  ;  she defeated them with great loss ,  
and struck off the heads of two prisoners of note ,  who were 
in the Kings tent with him ,  and to whom the King had 
promised his protection .  Her triumph ,  however ,  was veiy 
short .  She had no treasure ,  and her army subsisted by 
plunder .  This caused them to be hated and dreaded by the 
people ,  and particularly by the London people ,  who were 



HENRY THE SIXTH 227 

wealthy .  As soon as the Londoners heard that Edward ,  
Earl of March ,  united with the Earl of Warwick ,  was ad -  
vancing towards the city ,  they refused to send the Queen 
supplies ,  and made a great rejoicing .  

The Queen and her men retreated with all speed ,  and 
Edward and Warwick came on ,  greeted with loud acclama -  
tions on every side .  The courage ,  beauty ,  and virtues of 
young Edward could not be sufficiently praised by the whole 
people .  He rode into London like a conqueror ,  and met 
with an enthusiastic welcome .  A few days afterwards ,  Lord 
Falconbridge and the Bishop of Exeter assembled the citizens 
in St .  Johns Field ,  Clerkenwell ,  and asked them if they 
would have Henry of Lancaster for their King ? To this 
they all roared ,   "  No ,  no ,  no  !   "  and  "  King Edward  !  King 
Edward  !   "  Then ,  said those noblemen ,  would they love 
and serve young Edward? To this they all cried ,   " Yes ,  
yes  !   "  and threw up their caps and clapped their hands ,  
and cheered tremendously .  

Therefore ,  it was declared that by joining the Queen and 
not protecting those two prisoners of note ,  Henry of Lan -  
caster had forfeited the crown  ;  and Edward of York was 
proclaimed King .  He made a great speech to the applauding 
people at Westminster ,  and sat down as sovereign of England 
on that throne ,  on the golden covering of which his father 
— worthy of a better fate than the bloody axe which cut 
the thread of so many lives in England ,  through so many 
years — had laid his hand .  



CHAPTER XXIII 

ENGLAND UNDER EDWARD THE FOURTH 

King Edward the Fourth was not quite twenty - one years 
of age when he took that unquiet seat upon the throne of 
England .  The Lancaster party ,  the Bed Roses ,  were then 
assembling in great numbers near York ,  and it was necessary 
to give them battle instantly .  But ,  the stout Earl of 
Warwick leading for the young King ,  and the young King 
himself closely following him ,  and the English people 
crowding round the Royal standard ,  the White and the 
Red Roses met ,  on a wild March day when the snow 
was falling heavily ,  at Towton  ;  and there such a furious 
battle raged between them ,  that the total loss amounted to 
forty thousand men — all Englishmen ,  fighting ,  upon English 
ground ,  against one another .  The young King gained the 
day ,  took down the heads of his father and brother from 
the walls of York ,  and put up the heads of some of the 
most famous noblemen engaged in the battle on the other 
side .  Then ,  he went to London and was crowned with 
great splendour .  

A new Parliament met .  No fewer than one hundred 
and fifty of the principal noblemen and gentlemen on the 
Lancaster side were declared traitors ,  and the King — who 
had very little humanity ,  though he was handsome in person 
and agreeable in manners — resolved to do all he could ,  to 
pluck up the Red Rose root and branch .  

Queen Margaret ,  however ,  was still active for her young 
son .  She obtained help from Scotland and from Normandy ,  
and took several important English castles .  But ,  Warwick 
soon retook them  ;  the Queen lost all her treasure on board 
si lip in a great storm  ;  and both she and her son suffered 
great misfortunes .  Once ,  in the winter weather ,  as they were 
riding through a forest ,  they were attacked and plundered 
by a party of robbers  ;  and ,  when they had escaped from 
these men and were passing alone and on foot through 



EDWARD THE FOURTH 229 

a thick dark part of the wood ,  they came ,  all at once ,  upon 
another robber .  So the Queen ,  with a stout heart ,  took the 
little Prince by the hand ,  and going straight up to that 
robber ,  said to him ,   "  My friend ,  this is the young son of 
your lawful King  !  I confide him to your care .  "  The robber 
was surprised ,  but took the boy in his arms ,  and faithfully 
restored him and his mother to their friends .  In the end ,  
the Queens soldiers being beaten and dispersed ,  she went 
abroad again ,  and kept quiet for the present .  

Now ,  all this time ,  the deposed King Henry was concealed 
by a Welsh knight ,  who kept him close in his castle .  But ,  
next year ,  the Lancaster party recovering their spirits ,  raised 
a large body of men ,  and called him out of his retirement ,  
to put him at their head .  They were joined by some power -  
ful noblemen who had sworn fidelity to the new King ,  but 
who were ready ,  as usual ,  to break their oaths ,  whenever 
they thought there was anything to be got by it .  One of 
the worst things in the history of the war of the Ked and 
White Roses ,  is the ease with which these noblemen ,  who 
should have set an example of honour to the people ,  left 
either side as they took slight offence ,  or were disappointed 
in their greedy expectations ,  and joined the other .  Well  !  
Warwicks brother soon beat the Lancastrians ,  and the false 
noblemen ,  being taken ,  were beheaded without a moments 
loss of time .  The deposed King had a narrow escape  ;  
three of his servants were taken ,  and one of them bore his 
cap of estate ,  which was set with pearls and embroidered 
with two golden crowns .  However ,  the head to which the 
cap belonged ,  got safely into Lancashire ,  and lay pretty 
quietly there  ( the people in the secret being very true )  for 
more than a year .  At length ,  an old monk gave such in -  
telligence as led to Henrys being taken while he was sitting 
at dinner in a place called Waddington Hall .  He was im -  
mediately sent to London ,  and met at Islington by the Earl 
of Warwick ,  by whose directions he was put upon a horse ,  
with his legs tied under it ,  and paraded three times round 
the pillory .  Then ,  he was carried off to the Tower ,  where 
they treated him well enough .  

The White Rose being so triumphant ,  the young King 
abandoned himself entirely to pleasure ,  and led a jovial life .  
But ,  thorns were springing up under his bed of roses ,  as he 
soon found out .  For ,  having been privately married to 
Elizabeth Woodville ,  a young widow lady ,  very beautiful 



230 A CHILD S HISTORY OF ENGLAND 

and very captivating  ;  and at last resolving to make his 
secret known ,  and to declare her his Queen  ;  he gave some 
offence to the Earl of Warwick ,  who was usually called the 
King - Maker ,  because of his power and influence ,  and because 
of his having lent such great help to placing Edward on the 
throne .  This offence was not lessened by the jealousy with 
which the Nevil family  ( the Earl of Warwicks )  regarded the 
promotion of the Woodville family .  For ,  the young Queen 
was so bent on providing for her relations ,  that she made 
her father an earl and a great officer of state  ;  married her 
five sisters to young noblemen of the highest rank  ;  and 
provided for her younger brother ,  a young man of twenty ,  
by marrying him to an immensely rich old duchess of 
eighty .  The Earl of Warwick took all this pretty graciously 
for a man of his proud temper ,  until the question arose to 
whom the Kings sister .  Margaret ,  should be married .  
The Earl of Warwick said ,   "  To one of the French Kings 
sons ,  "  and was allowed to go over to the French King to 
make friendly proposals for that purpose ,  and to hold all 
manner of friendly interviews with him .  But ,  while he 
was so engaged ,  the Woodville party married the young 
lady to the Duke of Burgundy  !  Upon this he came back 
in great rage and scorn ,  and shut himself up discontented ,  
in his Castle of Middleham .  

A reconciliation ,  though not a very sincere one ,  was 
patched up between the Earl of Warwick and the King ,  
and lasted until the Earl married his daughter ,  against the 
Kings wishes ,  to the Duke of Clarence .  While the marriage 
was being celebrated at Calais ,  the people in the north 
of England where the influence of the Nevil family was 
strongest ,  broke out into rebellion  ;  their complaint was ,  
that England was oppressed and plundered by the Wood -  
ville family ,  whom they demanded to have removed from 
power .  As they were joined by great numbers of people ,  
and as they openly declared that they were supported by 
the Earl of Warwick ,  the King did not know what to do .  
At last ,  as he wrote to the Earl beseeching his aid ,  he and 
his new son - in - law came over to England ,  and began to 
arrange the business by shutting the King up in Middleham 
Castle in the safe keeping of the Archbishop of York  ;  so 
England was not only in the strange position of having 
two kings at once ,  but they were both prisoners at the 
same time .  



EDWARD THE FOURTH 23 1 

Even as yet ,  however ,  the King - Maker was so far true to 
the King ,  that he dispersed a new rising of the Lancastrians ,  
took their leader prisoner ,  and brought him to the King ,  
who ordered him to be immediately executed .  He presently 
allowed the King to return to London ,  and there innumer -  
able pledges of forgiveness and friendship were exchanged 
between them ,  and between the Nevils and the Woodvilles  ;  
the Kings eldest daughter was promised in marriage to the 
heir of the Nevil family  ;  and more friendly oaths were 
sworn ,  and more friendly promises made ,  than this book 
would hold .  

They lasted about three months .  At the end of that 
time ,  the Archbishop of York made a feast for the King ,  
the Earl of Warwick ,  and the Duke of Clarence ,  at his 
house ,  the Moor ,  in Hertfordshire .  The King was washing 
his hands before supper ,  when some on« whispered him that 
a body of a hundred men were lying in ambush outside the 
house .  Whether this were true or untrue ,  the King took 
fright ,  mounted his horse ,  and rode through the dark night 
to Windsor Castle .  Another reconciliation was patched up 
between him and the King - Maker ,  but it was a short one ,  
and it was the last .  A new rising took place in Lincoln -  
shire ,  and the King marched to repress it .  Having done 
so ,  he proclaimed that both the Earl of Warwick and the 
Duke of Clarence were traitors ,  who had secretly assisted 
it ,  and who had been prepared publicly to join it on the 
following day .  In these dangerous circumstances they both 
took ship and sailed away to the French court .  

And here a meeting took place between the Earl of 
Warwick and his old enemy ,  the Dowager Queen Margaret ,  
through whom his father had had his head struck off ,  and 
to whom he had been a bitter foe .  But .  now ,  when he said 
that he had done with the ungrateful and perfidious Edward 
of York ,  and that henceforth he devoted himself to the 
restoration of the House of Lancaster ,  either in the person 
of her husband or of her little son ,  she embraced him as 
if he had ever been her dearest friend .  She did more 
than that  ;  she married her son to his second daughter ,  
the Lady Anne .  However agreeable this marriage was 
to the new friends ,  it was very disagreeable to the Duke 
of Clarence ,  who perceived that his father - in - law ,  the King -  
Maker ,  would never make him King ,  now .  So ,  being but 
a weak - minded young traitor ,  possessed of very little worth 



232 A CHILD S HISTORY OF ENGLAND 

or sense ,  he readily listened to an artful court lady sent 
over for the purpose ,  and promised to turn traitor once 
more ,  and go over to his brother ,  King Edward ,  when 
a fitting opportunity should come .  

The Earl of Warwick ,  knowing nothing of this ,  soon 
redeemed his promise to the Dowager Queen Margaret ,  
by invading England and landing at Plymouth ,  where 
he instantly proclaimed King Henry ,  and summoned all 
Englishmen between the ages of sixteen and sixty ,  to join 
his banner .  Then ,  with his army increasing as he marched 
along ,  he went northward ,  and came so near King Edward ,  
who was in that part of the country ,  that Edward had to 
ride hard for it to the coast of Norfolk ,  and thence to get 
away in such ships as he could find ,  to Holland .  Thereupon ,  
the triumphant King - Maker and his false son - in - law ,  the 
Duke of Clarence ,  went to London ,  took the old King out 
of the Tower ,  and walked him in a great procession to Saint 
Pauls Cathedral with the crown upon his head .  This did 
not improve the temper of the Duke of Clarence ,  who saw 
himself farther off from being King than ever  ;  but he kept 
his secret ,  and said nothing .  The Nevil family were restored 
to all their honours and glories ,  and the Woodvilles and the 
rest were disgraced .  The King - Maker ,  less sanguinary than 
the King ,  shed no blood except that of the Earl of Worcester ,  
who had been so cruel to the people as to have gained the 
title of the Butcher .  Him they caught hidden in a tree ,  
and him they tried and executed .  No other death stained 
the King - Makers triumph .  

To dispute this triumph ,  back came King Edward again ,  
next year ,  landing at Ravenspur ,  coming on to York ,  causing 
all his men to cry  " Long live King Henry !   "  and swearing 
on the altar ,  without a blush ,  that he came to lay no claim 
to the crown .  Now was the time for the Duke of Clarence ,  
who ordered his men to assume the White Rose ,  and declare 
for his brother .  The Marquis of Montague ,  though the Earl 
of Warwicks brother ,  also declining to fight against King 
Edward ,  he went on successfully to London ,  where the Arch -  
bishop of York let him into the City ,  and where the people 
made great demonstrations in his favour .  For this they had 
four reasons .  Firstly ,  there were great numbers of the 
Kings adherents hiding in the City and ready to break out  ;  
secondly ,  the King owed them a great deal of money ,  which 
they could never hope to get if he were unsuccessful  ;  thirdly ,  



EDWARD THE FOURTH 233 

there was a young prince to inherit the crown  ;  and fourthly ,  
the King was gay and handsome ,  and more popular than 
a better man might have been with the City ladies .  After 
a stay of only two days with these worthy supporters ,  the 
King marched out to Barnet Common ,  to give the Earl of 
Warwick battle .  And now it was to be seen ,  for the last 
time ,  whether the King or the King - Maker was to carry 
the day .  

While the battle was yet pending ,  the faint - hearted Duke 
of Clarence began to repent ,  and sent over secret messages to 
his father - in - law ,  offering his services in mediation with the 
King .  But ,  the Earl of Warwick disdainfully rejected 
them ,  and replied that Clarence was false and perjured ,  and 
that he would settle the quarrel by the sword .  The battle 
began at four oclock in the morning and lasted until ten ,  
and during the greater part of the time it was fought in 
a thick mist — absurdly supposed to be raised by a magician .  
The loss of life was very great ,  for the hatred was strong on 
both sides .  The King - Maker was defeated ,  and the King 
triumphed .  Both the Earl of Warwick and his brother 
were slain ,  and their bodies lay in St .  Pauls ,  for some days ,  
as a spectacle to the people .  

Margarets spirit was not broken even by this great blow .  
Within five days she was in arms again ,  and raised her 
standard in Bath ,  whence she set off with her army ,  to try 
and join Lord Pembroke ,  who had a force in Wales .  But ,  the 
King ,  coming up with her outside the town of Tewkesbury ,  
and ordering his brother ,  the Duke of Gloucester ,  who was 
a brave soldier ,  to attack her men ,  she sustained an entire 
defeat ,  and was taken prisoner ,  together with her son ,  now 
only eighteen years of age .  The conduct of the King to 
this poor youth was worthy of his cruel character .  He 
ordered him to be led into his tent .  And what ,  "  said he ,  
• brought you to England ?  "   " I came to England ,  "  replied 
the prisoner ,  with a spirit which a man of spirit might have 
admired in a captive ,   " to recover my fathers kingdom ,  
which descended to him as his right ,  and from him descends 
to me ,  as mine .  "  The King ,  drawing off his iron gauntlet ,  
struck him with it in the face  ;  and the Duke of Clarence 
and some other lords ,  who were there ,  drew their noble 
swords ,  and killed him .  

His mother survived him ,  a prisoner ,  for five years  ;  after 
her ransom by the King of France ,  she survived for six years 
1 .  x  - 1 



234 A CHILD S HISTORY OF ENGLAND 

more .  Within three weeks of this murder .  Henry died one 
of those convenient sudden deaths which were so common 
in the Tower  ;  in plainer words ,  he was murdered by the 
Kings order .  

Having no particular excitement on his hands after this 
great defeat of the Lancaster party ,  and being perhaps 
desirous to get rid of some of his fat  ( for he was now getting 
too corpulent to be handsome )  ,  the King thought of making 
war on France .  As he wanted more money for this purpose 
than the Parliament could give him ,  though they were 
usually ready enough for war ,  he invented a new way of 
raising it ,  by sending for the principal citizens of London ,  
and telling them ,  with a grave face ,  that he was very much 
in want of cash ,  and would take it very kind in them if they 
would lend him some .  It being impossible for them safely 
to refuse ,  they complied ,  and the moneys thus forced from 
them were called — no doubt to the great amusement of the 
King and the Court — as if they were free gifts ,   " Benevo -  
lences .  "  What with grants from Parliament ,  and what 
with Benevolences ,  the King raised an army and passed 
over to Calais .  As nobody wanted war ,  however ,  the 
French King made proposals of peace ,  which were accepted ,  
and a truce was concluded for seven long years .  The 
proceedings between the Kings of France and England on 
this occasion ,  were very friendly ,  very splendid ,  and very 
distrustful .  They finished with a meeting between the two 
Kings ,  on a temporary bridge over the river Somme ,  where 
they embraced through two holes in a strong wooden grating 
like a lions cage ,  and made several bows and fine speeches 
to one another .  

It was time ,  now ,  that the Duke of Clarence should be 
punished for his treacheries  ;  and Fate had his punishment 
in store .  He was ,  probably ,  not trusted by the King — for 
who could trust him who knew him  !  — and he had certainly 
a powerful opponent in his brother Richard ,  Duke of Glou -  
cester ,  who ,  being avaricious and ambitious ,  wanted to marry 
that widowed daughter of the Earl of Warwicks who had 
been espoused to the deceased young Prince ,  at Calais .  
Clarence ,  who wanted all the family wealth for himself ,  
secreted this lady ,  whom Eichard found disguised as a 
servant in the City of London ,  and whom he married  ;  
arbitrators appointed by the King ,  then divided the property 
between the brothers .  This led to ill - will and mistrust 



EDWARD THE FOURTH 235 

between them .  Clarences wife dying ,  and he wishing to 
make another marriage ,  which was obnoxious to the King ,  
his ruin was hurried by that means ,  too .  At first ,  the 
Court struck at his retainers and dependents ,  and accused 
some of them of magic and witchcraft ,  and similar nonsense .  
Successful against this small game ,  it then mounted to the 
Duke himself ,  who was impeached by his brother the King ,  
in person ,  on a variety of such charges .  He was found 
guilty ,  and sentenced to be publicly executed .  He never 
was publicly executed ,  but he met his death somehow ,  in 
the Tower ,  and ,  no doubt ,  through some agency of the King 
or his brother Gloucester ,  or both .  It was supposed at the 
time that he was told to choose the manner of his death ,  
and that he chose to be drowned in a butt of Malmsey wine .  
I hope the story may be true ,  for it would have been a 
becoming death for such a miserable creature .  

The King survived him some five years .  He died in the 
forty - second year of his life ,  and the twenty - third of his 
reign .  He had a very good capacity and some good points ,  
but he was selfish ,  careless ,  sensual ,  and cruel .  He was 
a favourite with the people for his showy manners  ;  and 
the people were a good example to him in the constancy of 
their attachment .  He was penitent on his death - bed for 
his  "  Benevolences ,  "  and other extortions ,  and ordered 
restitution to be made to the people who had suffered from 
them .  He also called about his bed the enriched members 
of the Woodville family ,  and the proud lords whose honours 
were of older date ,  and endeavoured to reconcile them ,  for 
the sake of the peaceful succession of his son and the tran -  
quillity of England .  



CHAPTER XXIV 

ENGLAND UNDER EDWARD THE FIFTH 

The late Kings eldest son ,  the Prince of Wales ,  called 
Edward after him ,  was only thirteen years of age at his 
fathers death .  He was at Ludlow Castle with his uncle ,  
the Earl of Rivers .  The princes brother ,  the Duke of York ,  
only eleven years of age ,  was in London with his mother .  
The boldest ,  most crafty ,  and most dreaded nobleman in 
England at that time was their uncle Richard ,  Duke of 
Gloucester ,  and everybody wondered how the two poor boys 
would fare with such an uncle for a friend or a foe .  

The Queen ,  their mother ,  being exceedingly uneasy about 
this ,  was anxious that instructions should be sent to Lord 
Rivers to raise an army to escort the young King safely to 
London .  But ,  Lord Hastings ,  who was of the Court party 
opposed to the Woodvilles ,  and who disliked the thought of 
giving them that power ,  argued against the proposal ,  and 
obliged the Queen to be satisfied with an escort of two 
thousand horse .  The Duke of Gloucester did nothing ,  at 
first ,  to justify suspicion .  He came from Scotland  ( where 
he was commanding an army )  to York ,  and was there the 
first to swear allegiance to his nephew .  He then wrote 
a condoling letter to the Queen - Mother ,  and set off to be 
present at the coronation in London .  

Now ,  the young King ,  journeying towards London too ,  
with Lord Rivers and Lord Gray ,  came to Stony Stratford ,  
as his uncle came to Northampton ,  about ten miles distant  ;  
and when those two lords heard that the Duke of Gloucester 
was so near ,  they proposed to the young King that they 
should go back and greet him in his name .  The boy being 
very willing that they should do so ,  they rode off and were 
received with great friendliness ,  and asked by the Duke of 
Gloucester to stay and dine with him .  In the evening ,  
while they were merry together ,  up came the Duke of 
Buckingham with three hundred horsemen  ;  and next 



EDWARD THE FIFTH 237 

morning the two lords and the two dukes ,  and the three 
hundred horsemen ,  rode away together to rejoin the King .  
Just as they were entering Stony Stratford ,  the Duke of 
Gloucester ,  checking his horse ,  turned suddenly on the two 
lords ,  charged them with alienating from him the affections 
of his sweet nephew ,  and caused them to be arrested by the 
three hundred horsemen and taken back .  Then ,  he and 
the Duke of Buckingham went straight to the King  ( whom 
they had now in their power )  ,  to whom they made a show 
of kneeling down ,  and offering great love and submission  ;  
and then they ordered his attendants to disperse ,  and took 
him ,  alone with them ,  to Northampton .  

A few days afterwards they conducted him to London ,  
and lodged him in the Bishops Palace .  But ,  he did not 
remain there long  ;  for ,  the Duke of Buckingham with 
a tender face made a speech expressing how anxious he was 
for the Royal boys safety ,  and how much safer he would be 
in the Tower until his coronation ,  than he could be any -  
where else .  So ,  to the Tower he was taken ,  very carefully ,  
and the Duke of Gloucester was named Protector of the 
State .  

Although Gloucester had proceeded thus far with a very 
smooth countenance — and although he was a clever man ,  
fair of speech ,  and not ill - looking ,  in spite of one of his 
shoulders being something higher than the other — and 
although he had come into the City riding bare - headed at 
the Kings side ,  and looking very fond of him — he had 
made the Kings mother more uneasy yet  ;  and when the 
Royal boy was taken to the Tower ,  she became so alarmed 
that she took sanctuary in Westminster with her five 
daughters .  

Nor did she do this without reason ,  for ,  the Duke of 
Gloucester ,  finding that the lords who were opposed to the 
Woodville family were faithful to the young King never -  
theless ,  quickly resolved to strike a blow for himself .  
Accordingly ,  while those lords met in council at the Tower ,  
he and those who were in his interest met in separate 
council at his own residence ,  Crosby Palace ,  in Bishopsgate 
Street .  Being at last quite prepared ,  he one day appeared 
unexpectedly at the council in the Tower ,  and appeared to 
be very jocular and merry .  He was particularly gay with 
the Bishop of Ely : praising the strawberries that grew in 
his garden on Holborn Hill ,  and asking him to have some 



2^8 A CHILD S HISTORY OF ENGLAND 

gathered that he might eat them at dinner .  The Bishop ,  
quite proud of the honour ,  sent one of his men to fetch 
some  ;  and the Duke ,  still very jocular and gay ,  went out  ;  
and the council all said what a very agreeable duke he was  !  
In a little time ,  however ,  he came back quite altered — not 
at all jocular — frowning and fierce— and suddenly said ,  — 

 " What do those persons deserve who have compassed my 
destruction  ;  I being the Kings lawful ,  as well as natural ,  
protector ?  "  

To this strange question ,  Lord Hastings replied ,  that they 
deserved death ,  whosoever they were .  

 " Then ,  "  said the Duke ,   " I tell you that they are that 
sorceress my brothers wife  ;   "  meaning the Queen :  "  and 
that other sorceress ,  Jane Shore .  Who ,  by witchcraft ,  have 
withered my body ,  and caused my arm to shrink as I now 
show you .  "  

He then pulled up his sleeve and showed them his arm ,  
which was shrunken ,  it is true ,  but which had been so ,  as 
they all veiy well knew ,  from the hour of his birth .  

Jane Shore ,  being then the lover of Lord Hastings ,  as she 
had formerly been of the late King ,  that lord knew that 
he himself was attacked .  So ,  he said ,  in some confusion ,  
 "  Certainly ,  my Lord ,  if they have done this ,  they be worthy 
of punishment .  "  

 " If? "  said the Duke of Gloucester ;   " do you talk to me 
of ifs ? I tell you that they have so done ,  and I will make 
it good upon thy body ,  thou traitor  !   "  

With that ,  he struck the table a great blow with his fist .  
This was a signal to some of his people outside to cry 
 "  Treason  !   "  They immediately did so ,  and there was a 
rush into the chamber of so many armed men that it was 
filled in a moment .  

 "  First .  "  said the Duke of Gloucester to Lord Hastings .  
 " I arrest thee ,  traitor !  And let him .  "  he added to the 
armed men who took him ,   "  have a priest at once ,  for by 
St .  Paul I will not dine until I have seen his head off  !   "  

Lord Hastings was hurried to the green by the Tower 
chapel ,  and there beheaded on a log of wood that happened 
to be lying on the ground .  Then ,  the Duke dined with 
a good appetite ,  and after dinner summoning the principal 
citizens to attend him ,  told them that Lord Hastings and 
the rest had designed to murder both himself and the Duke 
of Buckingham ,  who stood by his side ,  if he had not provi -  



EDWARD THE FIFTH 239 

dentially discovered their design .  He requested them to be 
so obliging as to inform their fellow - citizens of the truth of 
what he said ,  and issued a proclamation  ( prepared and neatly 
copied out beforehand )  to the same effect .  

On the same day that the Duke did these things in the 
Tower ,  Sir Eichard Katcliffe ,  the boldest and most undaunted 
of his men ,  went down to Pontefract  ;  arrested Lord Rivers .  
Lord Gray ,  and two other gentlemen  ;  and publicly executed 
them on the scaffold ,  without any trial ,  for having intended 
the Dukes death .  Three clays afterwards the Duke ,  not to 
lose time ,  went down the river to Westminster in his barge ,  
attended by divers bishops ,  lords ,  and soldiers ,  and demanded 
that the Queen should deliver her second son ,  the Duke of 
York ,  into his safe keeping .  The Queen ,  being obliged to 
comply ,  resigned the child after she had wept over him  ;  
and Eichard of Gloucester placed him with his brother in 
the Tower .  Then ,  he seized Jane Shore ,  and ,  because she 
had been the lover of the late King ,  confiscated her property ,  
and got her sentenced to do public penance in the streets by 
walking in a scanty dress ,  with bare feet ,  and carrying a 
lighted candle ,  to St .  Pauls Cathedral ,  through the most 
crowded part of the City .  

Having now all things ready for his own advancement ,  
he caused a friar to preach a sermon at the cross which 
stood in front of St .  Pauls Cathedral ,  in which he dwelt 
upon the profligate manners of the late King ,  and upon the 
late shame of Jane Shore ,  and hinted that the princes were 
not his children .   " Whereas ,  good people ,  "  said the friar ,  
whose name was Shaw ,   "  my Lord the Protector ,  the noble 
Duke of Gloucester ,  that sweet prince ,  the pattern of all the 
noblest virtues ,  is the perfect image and express likeness of 
his father .  "  There had been a little plot between the Duke 
and the friar ,  that the Duke should appear in the crowd at 
this moment ,  when it was expected that the people would 
cry  "  Long live King Richard  !   "  But ,  either through the 
friar saying the words too soon ,  or through the Dukes 
coming too late ,  the Duke and the words did not come 
together ,  and the people only laughed ,  and the friar sneaked 
off ashamed .  

The Duke of Buckingham was a better hand at such 
business than the friar ,  so he went to the Guildhall the 
next day ,  and addressed the citizens in the Lord Protectors 
behalf .  A few dirty men ,  who had been hired and stationed 



240 A CHILD S HISTORY OF ENGLAND 

there for the purpose ,  crying when he had done ,    ;  God save 
King Richard  !   "  he made them a great bow ,  and thanked 
them with all his heart .  Next day ,  to make an end of it ,  
he went with the mayor and some lords and citizens to 
Bayard Castle ,  by the river ,  where Richard then was ,  and 
read an address ,  humbly entreating him to accept the Crown 
of England .  Richard ,  who looked down upon them out of 
a window and pretended to be in great uneasiness and alarm ,  
assured them there was nothing he desired less ,  and that his 
deep affection for his nephews forbade him to think of it .  
To this the Duke of Buckingham replied ,  with pretended 
warmth ,  that the free people of England would never submit 
to his nephews rule ,  and that if Richard ,  who was the lawful 
heir ,  refused the Crown ,  why then they must find some one 
else to wear it .  The Duke of Gloucester returned ,  that since 
he used that strong language ,  it became his painful duty to 
think no more of himself ,  and to accept the Crown .  

Upon that ,  the people cheered and dispersed  ;  and the 
Duke of Gloucester and the Duke of Buckingham passed 
a pleasant evening ,  talking over the play they had just 
acted with so much success ,  and every word of which they 
had prepared together .  



CHAPTER XXV 

ENGLAND UNDER RICHARD THE THIRD 

King Richard the Third was up betimes in the morning ,  
and went to Westminster Hall .  In the Hall was a marble 
seat ,  upon which he sat himself down between two great 
noblemen ,  and told the people that he began the new reign 
in that place ,  because the first duty of a sovereign was to 
administer the laws equally to all ,  and to maintain justice .  
He then mounted his horse and rode back to the City ,  where 
he was received by the clergy and the crowd as if he really 
had a right to the throne ,  and really were a just man .  The 
clergy and the crowd must have been rather ashamed of 
themselves in secret ,  I think ,  for being such poor - spirited 
knaves .  

The new King and his Queen were soon crowned with 
a great deal of show and noise ,  which the people liked very 
much  ;  and then the King set forth on a royal progress 
through his dominions .  He was crowned a second time at 
York ,  in order that the people might have show and noise 
enough  ;  and wherever he went was received with shouts of 
rejoicing — from a good many people of strong lungs ,  who 
were paid to strain their throats in crying ,   "  God save King 
Richard  !   "  The plan was so successful that I am told it has 
been imitated since ,  by other usurpers ,  in other progresses 
through other dominions .  

While he was on this journey ,  King Richard stayed a week 
at Warwick .  And from Warwick he sent instructions home 
for one of the wickedest murders that ever was done— the 
murder of the two young princes ,  his nephews ,  who were 
shut up in the Tower of London .  

Sir Robert Brackenbury was at that time Governor of the 
Tower .  To him ,  by the hands of a messenger named John 
Green ,  did King Richard send a letter ,  ordering him by 
some means to put the two young princes to death .  But 
Sir Robert — I hope because he had children of his own ,  and 



242 A CHILD S HISTORY OF ENGLAND 

loved them — sent John Green back again ,  riding and spurring 
along the dusty roads ,  with the answer that he could not do 
so horrible a piece of work .  The King ,  having frowningly 
considered a little ,  called to him Sir James Tyrrel ,  his 
master of the hoi - se ,  and to him gave authority to take 
command of the Tower ,  whenever he would ,  for twenty - four 
hours ,  and to keep all the keys of the Tower during that 
space of time .  Tyrrel ,  well knowing what was wanted ,  
looked about him for two hardened ruffians ,  and chose 
John Dighton ,  one of his own grooms ,  and Miles Forest ,  
who was a murderer by trade .  Having secured these two 
assistants ,  he went ,  upon a day in August ,  to the Tower ,  
showed his authority from the King ,  took the command for 
four - and - twenty hours ,  and obtained possession of the keys .  
And when the black night came ,  he went creeping ,  creeping ,  
like a guilty villain as he was ,  up the dark stone winding 
stairs ,  and along the dark stone passages ,  until he came to 
the door of the room where the two young princes ,  having 
said their prayers ,  lay fast asleep ,  clasped in each others 
arms .  And while he watched and listened at the door ,  he 
sent in those evil demons ,  John Dighton and Miles Forest ,  
who smothered the two princes with the bed and pillows ,  
and carried their bodies clown the stairs ,  and buried them 
under a great heap of stones at the staircase foot .  And 
when the day came ,  he gave up the command of the Tower ,  
and restored the keys ,  and hurried away without once 
looking behind him  ;  and Sir Robert Brackenbury went with 
fear and sadness to the princes room ,  and found the princes 
gone for ever .  

You know ,  through all this history ,  how true it is that 
traitors are never true ,  and you will not be surprised to 
learn that the Duke of Buckingham soon turned against 
King Richard ,  and joined a great conspiracy that was 
formed to dethrone him ,  and to place the crown upon its 
rightful owners head .  Richard had meant to keep the 
murder secret  ;  but when he heard through his spies that 
this conspiracy existed ,  and that many lords and gentlemen 
drank in secret to the healths of the two young princes in 
the Tower ,  he made it known that they were dead .  The 
conspirators ,  though thwarted for a moment ,  soon resolved to 
set up for the crown against the murderous Richard ,  Henkv 
Earl of Richmond ,  grandson of Catherine: that widow of 
Henry the Fifth who married Owen Tudor .  And as Henry 



RICHARD THE THIRD 243 

was of the house of Lancaster ,  they proposed that he should 
marry the Princess Elizabeth ,  the eldest daughter of the 
late King ,  now the heiress of the house of York ,  and thus 
by uniting the rival families put an end to the fatal wars 
of the Red and White Eoses .  All being settled ,  a time 
was appointed for Henry to come over from Brittany ,  and 
for a great rising against Richard to take place in several 
parts of England at the same hour .  On a certain day ,  
therefore ,  in October ,  the revolt took place  ;  but unsuccess -  
fully .  Richard was prepared ,  Henry was driven back at 
sea by a storm ,  his followers in England were dispersed ,  
and the Duke of Buckingham was taken ,  and at once be -  
headed in the marketplace at Salisbury .  

The time of his success was a good time ,  Richard thought ,  
for summoning a Parliament and getting some money .  So ,  
a Parliament was called ,  and it flattered and fawned upon 
him as much as he could possibly desire ,  and declared him 
to be the rightful King of England ,  and his only son 
Edward ,  then eleven years of age ,  the next heir to the 
throne .  

Richard knew full well that ,  let the Parliament say what 
it would ,  the Princess Elizabeth was remembered by people 
as the heiress of the house of York  ;  and having accurate 
information besides ,  of its being designed by the con -  
spirators to marry her to Henry of Richmond ,  he felt that 
it would much strengthen him and weaken them ,  to be 
beforehand with them ,  and marry her to his son .  With 
this view he went to the Sanctuary at Westminster ,  where the 
late Kings widow and her daughter still were ,  and besought 
them to come to Court  ;  where  ( he swore by anything and 
everything )  they should be safely and honourably enter -  
tained .  They came ,  accordingly ,  but had scarcely been at 
Court a month when his son died suddenly — or was 
poisoned — and his plan was crushed to pieces .  

In this extremity ,  King Richard ,  always active ,  thought ,  
 "  I must make another plan .  "  And he made the plan of 
marrying the Princess Elizabeth himself ,  although she was 
his niece .  There was one difficulty in the way : his wife ,  
the Queen Anne ,  was alive .  But ,  he knew  ( remembering 
his nephews )  how to remove that obstacle ,  and he made 
love to the Princess Elizabeth ,  telling her he felt perfectly 
confident that the Queen would die in February .  The 
Princess was not a very scrupulous young lady ,  for ,  instead 



244 A CHILD S HISTORY OF ENGLAND 

of rejecting the murderer of her brothers with scorn and 
hatred ,  she openly declared she loved him dearly  ;  and ,  
when February came and the Queen did not die ,  she ex -  
pressed her impatient opinion that she was too long about 
it .  However ,  King Eichard was not so far out in his pre -  
diction ,  but that she died in March — he took good care of 
that— and then this precious pair hoped to be married .  But 
they were disappointed ,  for the idea of such a marriage was 
so unpopular in the country ,  that the Kings chief coun -  
sellors ,  Katcllffe and Catesby .  would by no means under -  
take to propose it ,  and the King was even obliged to declare 
in public that he had never thought of such a thing .  

He was ,  by this time ,  dreaded and hated by all classes of 
his subjects .  His nobles deserted every day to Henrys 
side  ;  he dared not call another Parliament ,  lest his 
crimes should be denounced there  ;  and for want of money ,  
he was obliged to get Benevolences from the citizens ,  which 
exasperated them all against him .  It was said too ,  that ,  
being stricken by his conscience ,  he dreamed frightful 
dreams ,  and started up in the night - time ,  wild with terror 
and remorse .  Active to the last ,  through all this ,  he issued 
vigorous proclamations against Henry of Eichmond and all 
his followers ,  when he heard that they were coming against 
him with a Fleet from France  ;  and took the field as fierce 
and savage as a wild boar — the animal represented on his 
shield .  

Henry of Eichmond landed with six thousand men at 
Milford Haven ,  and came on against King Eichard ,  then 
encamped at Leicester with an army twice as great ,  through 
North Wales .  On Bosworth Field the two armies met  ;  
and Eichard ,  looking along Henrys ranks ,  and seeing them 
crowded with the English nobles who had abandoned him ,  
turned pale when he beheld the powerful Lord Stanley and 
his son  ( whom he had tried hard to retain )  among them .  
But ,  lie was as brave as he was wicked ,  and plunged into 
the thickest of the fight .  He was riding hither and thither ,  
laying about him in all directions ,  when he observed the 
Earl of Northumberland — one of his few great allies — to 
stand inactive ,  and the main body of his troops to hesitate .  
At the same moment ,  his desperate glance caught Henry of 
Eichmond among a little group of his knights .  Biding 
hard at him ,  and crying Treason  !  he killed his standard -  
bearer ,  fiercely unhorsed another gentleman ,  and aimed a 



RICHARD THE THIRD 245 

powerful stroke at Henry himself ,  to cut him down .  But ,  
Sir William Stanley parried it as it fell ,  and before Richard 
could raise his arm again ,  he was borne down in a press 
of numbers ,  unhorsed ,  and killed .  Lord Stanley picked up 
the crown ,  all bruised and trampled ,  and stained with 
blood ,  and put it upon Richmonds head ,  amid loud and 
rejoicing cries of  "  Long live King Henry  !   "  

That night ,  a horse was led up to the church of the Grey 
Friars at Leicester  ;  across whose back was tied ,  like some 
worthless sack ,  a naked body brought there for burial .  It 
was the body of the last of the Plantagenet line ,  King 
Richard the Third ,  usurper and murderer ,  slain at the 
battle of Bosworth Field in the thirty - second year of his 
age .  after a reign of two years .  



CHAPTER XXVI 

ENGLAND UNDER HENRY THE SEVENTH 

King Henry the Seventh did not turn out to be as line 
a fellow as the nobility and peojde hoped ,  in the first joy 
of their deliverance from Richard the Third .  He was very 
cold ,  crafty ,  and calculating ,  and Avould do almost anything 
for money .  He possessed considerable ability ,  but his 
chief merit appears to have been that he was not cruel 
when there was nothing to be got by it .  

The new King had promised the nobles who had espoused 
his cause that he would marry the Princess Elizabeth .  The 
first thing he did ,  was ,  to direct her to be removed from 
the castle of Sheriff Hutton in Yorkshire ,  where Richard 
had placed her ,  and restored to the care of her mother in 
London .  The young Earl of Warwick ,  Edward Plan -  
tagenet ,  son and heir of the late Duke of Clarence ,  had 
been kept a prisoner in the same old Yorkshire Castle 
with her .  This boy ,  who was now fifteen ,  the new King 
placed in the Tower for safety .  Then he came to London 
in great state ,  and gratified the people with a fine proces -  
sion  ;  on which kind of show he often very much relied 
for keeping them in good humour .  The sports and feasts 
which took place were followed by a terrible fever ,  called 
the Sweating Sickness  ;  of which great numbers of people 
died .  Lord Mayors and Aldermen are thought to have 
suffered most from it  ;  whether ,  because they were in the 
habit of over - eating themselves ,  or because they were very 
jealous of preserving filth and nuisances in the City  ( as 
they have been since )  ,  I dont know .  

The Kings coronation was postponed on account of the 
general ill - health ,  and he afterwards deferred his marriage ,  
as if he were not very anxious that it should take place: 
and ,  even after that ,  deferred the Queens coronation so 
long that he gave offence to the York party .  However ,  he 
set these things right in the end ,  by hanging some men and 



HENRY THE SEVENTH 247 

seizing on the rich possessions of others  ;  by granting more 
popular pardons to the followers of the late King than 
could ,  at first ,  be got from him  ;  and ,  by employing about 
his Court ,  some not veiy scrupulous persons who had been 
employed in the previous reign .  

As this reign was principally remarkable for two very 
curious impostures which have become famous in history ,  
we will make those two stories its principal feature .  

There was a priest at Oxford of the name of Simons ,  who 
had for a pupil a handsome boy named Lambert Simnel ,  
the son of a baker .  Partly to gratify his own ambitious 
ends ,  and partly to carry out the designs of a secret party 
formed against the King ,  this priest declared that his pupil ,  
the boy ,  Avas no other than the young Earl of Warwick  ;  
who  ( as everybody might have known )  was safely locked up 
in the Tower of London .  The priest and the boy went 
over to Ireland  ;  and ,  at Dublin ,  enlisted in their cause all 
ranks of the people : who seem to have been generous 
enough ,  but exceedingly irrational .  The Earl of Kildare ,  
the governor of Ireland ,  declared that he believed the boy 
to be what the priest represented  ;  and the boy ,  who had 
been well tutored by the priest ,  told them such things of 
his childhood ,  and gave them so many descriptions of the 
Koyal Family ,  that they were perpetually shouting and 
hurrahing ,  and drinking his health ,  and making all kinds 
of noisy and thirsty demonstrations ,  to express their belief 
in him .  Nor was this feeling confined to Ireland alone ,  
for the Earl of Lincoln — whom the late usurper had named 
as his successor — went over to the young Pretender  ;  and ,  
after holding a secret correspondence with the Dowager 
Duchess of Burgundy — the sister of Edward the Fourth ,  
who detested the present King and all his race — sailed to 
Dublin with two thousand German soldiers of her pro -  
viding .  In this promising state of the boys fortunes ,  he 
was crowned there ,  with a crown taken off the head of a 
statue of the Virgin Mary  ;  and was then ,  according to the 
Irish custom of those days ,  carried home on the shoulders 
of a big chieftain possessing a great deal more strength than 
sense .  Father Simons ,  you may be sure ,  was mighty busy 
at the coronation .  

Ten days afterwards ,  the Germans ,  and the Irish ,  and the 
priest ,  and the boy ,  and the Earl of Lincoln ,  all landed in 
Lancashire to invade England .  The King ,  who had good 



248 a childs History or England 

intelligence of their movements ,  set up his standard at 
Nottingham ,  where vast numbers resorted to him every 
day  ;  while the Earl of Lincoln could gain but very few .  
With his small force he tried to make for the town of 
Newark  ;  but the Kings army getting between him and 
that place ,  he had no choice but to risk a battle at Stoke .  
It soon ended in the complete destruction of the Pretenders 
forces ,  one half of whom were killed  ;  among them ,  the 
Earl himself .  The priest and the bakers boy were taken 
prisoners .  The priest ,  after confessing the trick ,  was shut 
up in prison ,  where he afterwards died — suddenly perhaps .  
The boy was taken into the Kings kitchen and made a 
turnspit .  He was afterwards raised to the station of one 
of the Kings falconers ;  and so ended this strange im -  
position .  

There seems reason to suspect that the Dowager Queen — 
always a restless and busy woman — had had some share in 
tutoring the bakers son .  The King was veiy angry with 
her ,  whether or no .  He seized upon her property ,  and 
shut her up in a convent at Bermondsey .  

One might suppose that the end of this story would have 
put the Irish people on their guard  ;  but they were quite 
ready to receive a second impostor ,  as they had received the 
first ,  and that same troublesome Duchess of Burgundy soon 
gave them the opportunity .  All of a sudden there appeared 
at Cork ,  in a vessel arriving from Portugal ,  a young man 
of excellent abilities ,  of very handsome appearance and most 
winning manners ,  who declared himself to be Bichard ,  
Duke of York ,  the second son of King Edward the Fourth .  
 " 0 ,  "  said some ,  even of those ready Irish believers ,  
u but surely that young Prince was murdered by his uncle 
in the Tower !  "  —  " It is supposed so ,  "  said the engaging 
young man ;   " and my brother was killed in that gloomy 
prison  ;  but I escaped — it dont matter how ,  at present — 
and have been wandering about the world for seven long 
years .  "  This explanation being quite satisfactory to numbers 
of the Irish people ,  they began again to shout and to hurrah ,  
and to drink his health ,  and to make the noisy and thirsty 
demonstrations all over again .  And the big chieftain in 
Dublin began to look out for another coronation ,  and an -  
other young King to be carried home on his back .  

Now ,  King Henry being then on bad terms with France ,  
the French King ,  Charles the Eighth ,  saw that ,  by pre -  



HENRY THE SEVENTH 249 

tending to believe in the handsome young man ,  he could 
trouble his enemy sorely .  So ,  he invited him over to the 
French Court ,  and appointed him a body - guard ,  and treated 
him in all respects as if he really were the Duke of York .  
Peace ,  however ,  being soon concluded between the two 
Kings ,  the pretended Duke was turned adrift ,  and wan -  
dered for protection to the Duchess of Burgundy .  She ,  
after feigning to inquire into the reality of his claims ,  
declared him to be the very picture of her dear departed 
brother  ;  gave him a body - guard at her Court ,  of thirty 
halberdiers  ;  and called him by the sounding name of the 
 " White Eose of England .  

The leading members of the White Kose party in Eng -  
land sent over an agent ,  named Sir Kobert Clifford ,  to 
ascertain whether the White Koses claims were good : the 
King also sent over his agents to inquire into the Koses 
history .  The White Roses declared the young man to be 
really the Duke of York  ;  the King declared him to be 
Perkin Wakbeck ,  the son of a merchant of the city of 
Tournay ,  who had acquired his knowledge of England ,  its 
language and manners ,  from the English merchants who 
traded in Flanders  ;  it was also stated by the Koyal agents 
that he had been in the service of Lady Brompton ,  the wife 
of an exiled English nobleman ,  and that the Duchess of 
Burgundy had caused him to be trained and taught ,  ex -  
pressly for this deception .  The King then required the 
Archduke Philip — who was the sovereign of Burgundy — 
to banish this new Pretender ,  or to deliver him up  ;  but ,  
as the Archduke replied that he could not control the 
Duchess in her own land ,  the King ,  in revenge ,  took the 
market of English cloth away from Antwerp ,  and prevented 
all commercial intercourse between the two countries .  

He also ,  by arts and bribes ,  prevailed on Sir Robert 
Clifford to betray his employers  ;  and he denouncing several 
famous English noblemen as being secretly the friends of 
Perkin Warbeck ,  the King had three of the foremost 
executed at once .  Whether he pardoned the remainder 
because they were poor ,  I do not know  ;  but it is only too 
probable that he refused to pardon one famous nobleman 
against whom the same Clifford soon afterwards informed 
separately ,  because he was rich .  This was no other than 
Sir William Stanley ,  who had saved the Kings life at the 
battle of Bosworth Field .  It is very doubtful whether his 



250 A CHILD S HISTORY OF ENGLAND 

treason amounted to much more than his having said ,  that 
if he were sure the young man was the Duke of York ,  he 
would not take arms against him .  Whatever he had done 
he admitted ,  like an honourable spirit  ;  and he lost his head 
for it ,  and the covetous King gained all his wealth .  

Perkin Warbeck kept quiet for three years  ;  but .  as the 
Flemings began to complain heavily of the loss of their trade 
by the stoppage of the Antwerp market on his account ,  and 
as it was not unlikely that they might even go so far as to 
take his life ,  or give him up ,  he found it necessary to do 
something .  Accordingly he made a desperate sally ,  and 
landed ,  with only a few hundred men ,  on the coast of Deal .  
But he was soon glad to get back to the place from whence 
he came  ;  for the country people rose against his followers ,  
killed a great many ,  and took a hundred and fifty prisoners : 
who were all driven to London ,  tied together with ropes ,  like 
a team of cattle .  Every one of them was hanged on some 
part or other of the sea - shore  ;  in order ,  that if any more 
men should come over with Perkin Warbeck ,  they might see 
the bodies as a warning before they landed .  

Then the wary King ,  by making a treaty of commerce 
with the Flemings ,  drove Perkin Warbeck out of that 
country  ;  and ,  by completely gaining over the Irish to his 
side ,  deprived him of that asylum too .  He wandered away 
to Scotland ,  and told his story at that Court .  King James 
the Fourth of Scotland ,  who was no friend to King Henry 
and had no reason to be  ( for King Henry had bribed his 
Scotch lords to betray him more than once  ;  but had never 
succeeded in his plots )  ,  gave him a great reception ,  called 
him his cousin ,  and gave him in marriage the Lady Catherine 
Gordon ,  a beautiful and charming creature related to the 
royal house of Stuart .  

Alarmed by this successful reappearance of the Pretender ,  
the King still undermined ,  and bought ,  and bribed ,  and 
kept his doings and Perkin Warbecks story in the dark ,  
when he might ,  one would imagine ,  have rendered the 
matter clear to all England .  But ,  for all this bribing of 
the Scotch lords at the Scotch Kings Court ,  he could not 
procure the Pretender to be delivered up to him .  James ,  
though not very particular in many respects ,  would not 
betray him  ;  and the ever - busy Duchess of Burgundy so 
provided him with arms ,  and good soldiers ,  and with money 
besides ,  that he had soon a little army of fifteen hundred 



HENRY THE SEVENTH 25 1 

men of various nations .  With these ,  and aided by the 
Scottish King in person ,  he crossed the border into England ,  
and made a proclamation to the people ,  in which he called 
the King  "  Henry Tudor  ;   "  offered large rewards to any 
who should take or distress him  ;  and announced himself 
as King Eichard the Fourth come to receive the homage of 
his faithful subjects .  His faithful subjects ,  however ,  cared 
nothing for him ,  and hated his faithful troops : who ,  being 
of different nations ,  quarrelled also among themselves .  
Worse than this ,  if worse were possible ,  they began to 
plunder the country  ;  upon which the White Eose said ,  
that he would rather lose his rights ,  than gain them through 
the miseries of the English people .  The Scottish King made 
a jest of his scruples  ;  but they and their whole force went 
back again without fighting a battle .  

The worst consequence of this attempt was ,  that a rising 
took place among the people of Cornwall ,  who considered 
themselves too heavily taxed to meet the charges of the ex -  
pected war .  Stimulated by Flammock ,  a lawyer ,  and Joseph ,  
a blacksmith ,  and joined by Lord Audley and some other 
country gentlemen ,  they marched on all the way to Deptford 
Bridge ,  where they fought a battle with the Kings army .  
They were defeated — though the Cornish men fought with 
great bravery — and the lord was beheaded ,  and the lawyer 
and the blacksmith were hanged ,  drawn ,  and quartered .  The 
rest were pardoned .  The King ,  who believed every man to 
be as avaricious as himself ,  and thought that money could 
settle anything ,  allowed them to make bargains for their 
liberty with the soldiers who had taken them .  

Perkin Warbeck ,  doomed to wander up and down ,  and 
never to find rest anywhere — a sad fate : almost a sufficient 
punishment for an imposture ,  which he seems in time to 
have half believed himself — lost his Scottish refuge through 
a truce being made between the two Kings  ;  and found 
himself ,  once more ,  without a country before him in which 
he could lay his head .  But James  ( always honourable and 
true to him ,  alike when he melted down his plate ,  and even 
the great gold chain he had been used to wear ,  to pay soldiers 
in his cause  ;  and now ,  when that cause was lost and 
hopeless )  did not conclude the treaty ,  until he had safely 
departed out of the Scottish dominions .  He ,  and his 
beautiful wife ,  who was faithful to him under all reverses ,  
and left her state and home to follow his poor fortunes ,  



252 A CHILDS HISTORY OF ENGLAND 

were put aboard ship with everything necessaiy for their 
comfort and protection ,  and sailed for Ireland .  

But ,  the Irish people had had enough of counterfeit Earls 
of Warwick and Dukes of York ,  for one while : and would 
give the White Rose no aid .  So ,  the White Rose — encircled 
by thorns indeed — resolved to go with his beautiful wife to 
Cornwall as a forlorn resource ,  and see what might be made 
of the Cornish men ,  who had risen so valiantly a little 
while before ,  and who had fought so bravely at Deptford 
Bridge .  

To Whitsand Bay ,  in Cornwall ,  accordingly ,  came Perkin 
Warbeck and his wife  ;  and the lovely lady he shut up for 
safety in the Castle of St .  Michaels Mount ,  and then marched 
into Devonshire at the head of three thousand Cornish men .  
These were increased to six thousand by the time of his 
arrival in Exeter  ;  but ,  there the people made a stout re -  
sistance ,  and he went on to Taunton ,  where he came in 
sight of the Kings army .  The stout Cornish men ,  although 
they were few in number ,  and badly armed ,  were so bold ,  
that they never thought of retreating  ;  but bravely looked 
forward to a battle on the morrow .  Unhappily for them ,  
the man who was possessed of so many engaging cpualities ,  
and who attracted so many people to his side when he had 
nothing else with which to tempt them ,  was not as brave 
as they .  In the night ,  when the two armies lay opposite 
to each other ,  he mounted a swift horse and tied .  When 
morning dawned ,  the poor confiding Cornish men ,  discover -  
ing that they had no leader ,  surrendered to the Kings 
power .  Some of them were hanged ,  and the rest were 
pardoned and went miserably home .  

Before the King pursued Perkin Warbeck to the sanctuary 
of Beaulieu in the New Forest ,  where it was soon known 
that he had taken refuge ,  he sent a body of horsemen to 
St .  Michaels Mount ,  to seize his wife .  She was soon taken 
and brought as a captive before the King .  But she was so 
beautiful ,  and so good ,  and so devoted to the man in whom 
she believed ,  that the King regarded her with compassion ,  
treated her with great respect ,  and placed her at Court ,  near 
the Queens person .  And many years after Perkin Warbeck 
Avas no more ,  and when his strange story had become like a 
nursery tale ,  she was called the White Rose ,  by the people ,  
in remembrance of her beauty .  

The sanctuary at Beaulieu was soon surrounded by the 



& 



HENRY THE SEVENTH 253 

Kings men  ;  and the King ,  pursuing his usual dark artful 
ways ,  sent pretended friends to Perkin Warbeck to persuade 
him to come out and surrender himself .  This he soon did  ;  
the King having taken a good look at the man of whom he 
had heard so much — from behind a screen — directed him to 
be well mounted ,  and to ride behind him at a little distance ,  
guarded ,  but not bound in any way .  So they entered London 
with the Kings favourite show— a procession  ;  and some of 
the people hooted as the Pretender rode slowly through the 
streets to the Tower  ;  but the greater part were cmiet ,  and 
very curious to see him .  From the Tower ,  he was taken to 
the Palace at Westminster ,  and there lodged like a gentle -  
man ,  though closely watched .  He was examined every now 
and then as to his imposture  ;  but the King was so secret in 
all he did ,  that even then he gave it a consequence ,  which 
it cannot be supposed to have in itself deserved .  

At last Perkin Warbeck ran away ,  and took refuge in 
another sanctuary near Richmond in Surrey .  From this 
he was again persuaded to deliver himself up  ;  and ,  being 
conveyed to London ,  he stood in the stocks for a whole day ,  
outside Westminster Hall ,  and there read a paper purporting 
to be his full confession ,  and relating his history as the 
Kings agents had originally described it .  He was then 
shut up in the Tower again ,  in the company of the Earl of 
Warwick ,  who had now been there for fourteen years : ever 
since his removal out of Yorkshire ,  except when the King 
had had him at Court ,  and had shown him to the people ,  
to prove the imposture of the Bakers boy .  It is but too 
probable ,  when we consider the crafty character of Henry 
the Seventh ,  that these two were brought together for 
a cruel purpose .  A plot was soon discovered between them 
and the keepers ,  to murder the Governor ,  get possession of 
the keys ,  and proclaim Perkin Warbeck as King Richard 
the Fourth .  That there was some such plot ,  is likely  ;  that 
they were tempted into it ,  is at least as likely  ;  that the 
unfortunate Earl of Warwick — last male of the Plantagenet 
line — was too unused to the world ,  and too ignorant and 
simple to know much about it ,  whatever it was ,  is perfectly 
certain  ;  and that it was the Kings interest to get rid of 
him ,  is no less so .  He was beheaded on Tower Hill ,  and 
Perkin Warbeck was hanged at Tyburn .  

Such was the end of the pretended Duke of York ,  whose 
shadowy history was made more shadowy — and ever will 



254 A CHILDS HISTORY OF ENGLAND 

be — by the mystery and craft of the King .  If he had 
turned his great natural advantages to a more honest account ,  
he might have lived a happy and respected life ,  even in 
those days .  But he died upon a gallows at Tyburn ,  leaving 
the Scottish lady ,  who had loved him so well ,  kindly pro -  
tected at the Queens Court .  After some time she forgot 
her old loves and troubles ,  as many people do with Times 
merciful assistance ,  and married a Welsh gentleman .  Her 
second husband ,  Sir Matthew Cradoc ,  more honest and 
more happy than her first ,  lies beside her in a tomb in the 
old church of Swansea .  

The ill - blood between France and England in this reign ,  
arose out of the continued plotting of the Duchess of 
Burgundy ,  and disputes respecting the affairs of Brittany .  
The King feigned to be very patriotic ,  indignant ,  and war -  
like  ;  but he always contrived so as never to make war in 
reality ,  and always to make money .  His taxation of the 
people ,  on pretence of war with France ,  involved ,  at one 
time ,  a very dangerous insurrection ,  headed by Sir John 
Egremont ,  and a common man called John a Chambre .  
But it was subdued by the royal forces ,  under the command 
of the Earl of Surrey .  The knighted John escaped to the 
Duchess of Burgundy ,  who was ever ready to receive any 
one who gave the King trouble  ;  and the plain John was 
hanged at York ,  in the midst of a number of his men ,  but 
on a much higher gibbet ,  as being a greater traitor .  Hung 
high or hung low ,  however ,  hanging is much the same to 
to the person hung .  

Within a year after her marriage ,  the Queen had given 
birth to a son ,  who was called Prince Arthur in remembrance 
of the old British prince of romance and story  ;  and who ,  
when all these events had happened ,  being then in his 
fifteenth year ,  was married to Catherine ,  the daughter of 
the Spanish monarch ,  with great rejoicings and bright 
prospects  ;  but in a very few months he sickened and died .  
As soon as the King had recovered from his grief ,  he 
thought it a pity that the fortune of the Spanish Princess ,  
amounting to two hundred thousand crowns ,  should go out 
of the family ;  and therefore arranged that the young widow 
should marry his second son Henry ,  then twelve years of 
age ,  when he too should be fifteen .  There were objections 
to this marriage on the part of the clergy  ;  but .  as the 
infallible Pope was gained over ,  and ,  as he must be right ,  



HENKY THE SEVENTH 255 

that settled the business for the time .  The Kings eldest 
daughter was provided for ,  and a long course of disturbance 
was considered to be set at rest ,  by her being married to 
the Scottish King .  

And now the Queen died .  When the King had got over 
that grief too ,  his mind once more reverted to his darling 
money for consolation ,  and he thought of marrying the 
Dowager Queen of Naples ,  who was immensely rich : but ,  
as it turned out not to be practicable to gain the money 
however practicable it might have been to gain the lady ,  he 
gave up the idea .  He was not so fond of her but that he 
soon proposed to marry the Dowager Duchess of Savoy  ;  
and ,  soon afterwards ,  the widow of the King of Castile ,  who 
was raving mad .  But he made a money - bargain instead ,  
and married neither .  

The Duchess of Burgundy ,  among the other discontented 
people to whom she had given refuge ,  had sheltered Edmund 
de la Pole  ( younger brother of that Earl of Lincoln who 
was killed at Stoke )  ,  now Earl of Suffolk .  The King had 
prevailed upon him to return to the marriage of Prince 
Arthur  ;  but ,  he soon afterwards went away again  ;  and 
then the King ,  suspecting a conspiracy ,  resorted to his 
favourite plan of sending him some treacherous friends ,  and 
buying of those scoundrels the secrets they disclosed or 
invented .  Some arrests and executions took place in con -  
sequence .  In the end ,  the King ,  on a promise of not 
taking his life ,  obtained possession of the person of Edmund 
de la Pole ,  and shut him up in the Tower .  

This was his last enemy .  If he had lived much longer 
he would have made many more among the people ,  by the 
grinding exaction to which he constantly exposed them ,  and 
by the tyrannical acts of his two prime favourites in all 
money - raising matters ,  Edmund Dudley and Kichard 
Empson .  But Death — the enemy who is not to be bought 
off or deceived ,  and on whom no money ,  and no treachery ,  
has any effect — presented himself at this juncture ,  and 
ended the Kings reign .  He died of the gout ,  on the 
twenty - second of April ,  one thousand five hundred and 
nine ,  and in the fifty - third year of his age ,  after reigning 
twenty - four years  ;  he was buried in the beautiful Chapel 
of Westminster Abbey ,  which he had himself founded ,  and 
which still bears his name .  

It was in this reign that the great Christopher Columbus ,  



256 A CHILDS HISTORY OF ENGLAND 

on behalf of Spain ,  discovered what was then called The 
New World .  Great wonder ,  interest ,  and hope of wealth 
being awakened in England thereby ,  the King and the 
merchants of London and Bristol fitted out an English 
expedition for further discoveries in the New World ,  and 
entrusted it to Sebastian Cabot ,  of Bristol ,  the son of 
a Venetian pilot there .  He was very successful in his 
voyage ,  and gained high reputation ,  both for himself and 
England .  



CHAPTER XXVII 

ENGLAND UNDER HENRY THE EIGHTH ,  CALLED BLUFF 
KING HAL AND BURLY KING HARRY 

Part the First .  

We now come to King Henry the Eighth ,  whom it has 
been too much the fashion to call  " Bluff King Hal ,  "  and 
 " Burly King Harry ,  "  and other fine names ;  but whom 
I shall take the liberty to call ,  plainly ,  one of the most 
detestable villains that ever drew breath .  You will be able 
to judge ,  long before we come to the end of his life ,  whether 
he deserves the character .  

He was just eighteen years of age when he came to the 
throne .  People said he was handsome then  ;  but I dont 
believe it .  He was a big ,  burly ,  noisy ,  small - eyed ,  large -  
faced ,  double - chinned ,  swinish - looking fellow in later life 
 ( as we know from the likenesses of him ,  painted by the 
famous Hans Holbein )  ,  and it is not easy to believe that 
so bad a character can ever have been veiled under a pre -  
possessing appeartince .  

He was anxious to make himself popular ;  and the people ,  
who had long disliked the late King ,  were very willing to 
believe that he deserved to be so .  He was extremely fond 
of show and display ,  and so were they .  Therefore there 
was great rejoicing w T hen he married the Princess Catherine ,  
and when they were both crowned .  And the King fought 
at tournaments and always came off victorious — for the 
courtiers took care of that — and there was a general outcry 
that he was a wonderful man .  Empson ,  Dudley ,  and their 
supporters were accused of a variety of crimes they had 
never committed ,  instead of the offences of which they really 
had been guilty  ;  and they were pilloried ,  and set upon 
horses with their faces to the tails ,  and knocked about and 
beheaded ,  to the satisfaction of the people ,  and the enrich -  
ment of the King .  

The Pope ,  so indefatigable in getting the world into 
i .  Y 



258 A CHILDS HISTORY OF ENGLAND 

trouble ,  had mixed himself up in a war on the continent of 
Europe ,  occasioned by the reigning Princes of little quarrel -  
ling states in Italy having at various times married into 
other Royal families ,  and so led to their claiming a share 
in those petty Governments .  The King ,  who discovered 
that he was veiy fond of the Pope ,  sent a herald to the 
King of France ,  to say that he must not make war upon 
that holy personage ,  because he was the father of all 
Christians .  As the French King did not mind this relation -  
ship in the least ,  and also refused to admit a claim King 
Henry made to certain lands in France ,  war was declared 
between the two countries .  Not to perplex this story with 
an account of the tricks and designs of all the sovereigns 
who were engaged in it ,  it is enough to say that England 
made a blundering alliance with Spain ,  and got stupidly 
taken in by that country  ;  which made its own terms with 
France when it could ,  and left England in the lurch .  Sir 
Edward Howard ,  a bold admiral ,  son of the Earl of Surrey ,  
distinguished himself by his bravery against the French in 
this business  ;  but ,  unfortunately ,  he was more brave than 
wise ,  for ,  skimming into the French harbour of Brest with 
only a few row - boats ,  he attempted  ( in revenge for the 
defeat and death of Sir Thomas Knyvett ,  another bold 
English admiral )  to take some strong French ships ,  well 
defended with batteries of cannon .  .  The upshot was ,  that 
he was left on board of one of them  ( in consequence of its 
shooting away from his own boat )  ,  with not more than about 
a dozen men ,  and was thrown into the sea and drowned : 
though not until he had taken from his breast his gold 
chain and gold whistle ,  which were the signs of his office ,  
and had cast them into the sea to prevent their being made 
a boast of by the enemy .  After this defeat — which was a 
great one ,  for Sir Edward Howard was a man of valour and 
fame — the King took it into his head to invade France in 
person  ;  first executing that dangerous Earl of Suffolk whom 
his father had left in the Tower ,  and appointing Queen 
Catherine to the charge of his kingdom in his absence .  He 
sailed to Calais ,  where he was joined by Maximilian ,  
Emperor of Germany ,  who pretended to be his soldier ,  and 
who took pay in his sei - vice : with a good deal of nonsense 
of that sort ,  flattering enough to the vanity of a vain 
blusterer .  The King might be successful enough in sham 
fights  ;  but his idea of real battles chiefly consisted in 



HENRY THE EIGHTH 259 

pitching silken tents of bright colours that were igno -  
miniously blown down by the wind ,  and in making a vast 
display of gaudy flags and golden curtains .  Fortune ,  how -  
ever ,  favoured him better than he deserved  ;  for ,  after much 
waste of time in tent pitching ,  flag flying ,  gold curtaining ,  
and other such masquerading ,  he gave the French battle 
at a place called Guinegate : where they took such an 
unaccountable panic ,  and fled with such swiftness ,  that it 
was ever afterwards called by the English the Battle of 
Spurs .  Instead of following up his advantage ,  the King ,  
finding that he had had enough of real fighting ,  came home 
again .  

The Scottish King ,  though nearly related to Henry by 
marriage ,  had taken part against him in this war .  The Earl 
of Surrey ,  as the English general ,  advanced to meet him 
when he came out of his own dominions and crossed the 
river Tweed .  The two armies came up with one another 
when the Scottish King had also crossed the river Till ,  and 
was encamped upon the last of the Cheviot Hills ,  called the 
Hill of Flodden .  Along the plain below it ,  the English ,  
when the hour of battle came ,  advanced .  The Scottish 
army ,  which had been drawn up in five great bodies ,  then 
came steadily clown in perfect silence .  So they ,  in their 
turn ,  advanced to meet the English army ,  which came on 
in one long line  ;  and they attacked it with a body of 
spearmen ,  under Lord Home .  At first they had the best 
of it  ;  but the English recovered themselves so bravely ,  and 
fought with such valour ,  that ,  when the Scottish King 
had almost made his way up to the Koyal standard ,  he 
was slain ,  and the whole Scottish power routed .  Ten 
thousand Scottish men lay dead that day on Flodden Field  ;  
and among them ,  numbers of the nobility and gently .  For 
a long time afterwards ,  the Scottish peasantry used to 
believe that their King had not been really killed in this 
battle ,  because no Englishman had found an iron belt he 
wore about his body as a penance for having been an 
unnatural and undutiful son .  But ,  whatever became of 
his belt ,  the English had his sword and dagger ,  and the 
ring from his finger ,  and his body too ,  covered with wounds .  
There is no doubt of it  ;  for it was seen and recognised 
by English gentlemen who had known the Scottish King 
well .  

When King Henry was making ready to renew the war 



260 A CHILDS HISTORY OF ENGLAND 

in France ,  the French King was contemplating peace .  His 
queen ,  dying at this time ,  he proposed ,  though he was 
upwards of fifty years old ,  to many King Henrys sister ,  
the Princess Mary ,  who ,  besides being only sixteen ,  was 
betrothed to the Duke of Suffolk .  As the inclinations of 
young Princesses were not much considered in such matters ,  
the marriage was concluded ,  and the poor girl was escorted 
to France ,  where she was immediately left as the French 
Kings bride ,  with only one of all her English attendants .  
That one was a pretty young girl named Anne Boleyn ,  
niece of the Earl of Surrey ,  who had been made Duke of 
Norfolk ,  after the victory of Flodden Field .  Anne Boleyns 
is a name to be remembered ,  as you will presently find .  

And now the French King ,  who was very proud of his 
young wife ,  was preparing for many years of happiness ,  and 
she was looking forward ,  I dare say ,  to many years of 
misery ,  when he died within three months ,  and left her 
a young widow .  The new French monarch ,  Francis the 
First ,  seeing how important it was to his interests that 
she should take for her second husband no one but an 
Englishman ,  advised her first lover ,  the Duke of Suffolk ,  
when King Hemy sent him over to France to fetch her 
home ,  to marry her .  The Princess being herself so fond 
of that Duke ,  as to tell him that he must either do so then ,  
or for ever lose her ,  they were wedded  ;  and Hemy after -  
wards forgave them .  In making interest with the King ,  
the Duke of Suffolk had addressed his most powerful 
favourite and adviser ,  Thomas Wolsey — a name very famous 
in history for its rise and downfall .  

Wolsey was the son of a respectable butcher at Ipswich ,  
in Suffolk ,  and received so excellent an education that he 
became a tutor to the family of the Marquis of Dorset ,  who 
afterwards got him appointed one of the late Kings chap -  
lains .  On the accession of Henry the Eighth ,  he was 
promoted and taken into great favour .  He was now Arch -  
bishop of York  ;  the Pope had made him a Cardinal besides  ;  
and whoever wanted influence in England or favour with 
the King — whether he were a foreign monarch or an English 
nobleman — was obliged to make a friend of the great 
Cardinal Wolsey .  

He was a gay man ,  who could dance and jest ,  and sing 
and drink  ;  and those were the roads to so much ,  or rather 
so little ,  of a heart as King Henry had .  He was wonderfully 



HENRY THE EIGHTH 261 

fond of pomp and glitter ,  and so was the King .  He knew 
a good deal of the Church learning of that time  ;  much of 
which consisted in finding artful excuses and pretences for 
almost any wrong thing ,  and in arguing that black was 
white ,  or any other colour .  This kind of learning pleased 
the King too .  For many such reasons ,  the Cardinal was 
high in estimation with the King  ;  and ,  being a man of far 
greater ability ,  knew as well how to manage him ,  as a clever 
keeper may know how to manage a wolf or a tiger ,  or any 
other cruel and uncertain beast ,  that may turn upon him 
and tear him any day .  Never had there been seen in 
England such state as my Lord Cardinal kept .  His wealth 
was enormous  ;  equal ,  it was reckoned ,  to the riches of the 
Crown .  His palaces were as splendid as the Kings ,  and 
his retinue was eight hundred strong .  He held his Court ,  
dressed out from top to toe in flaming scarlet  ;  and his very 
shoes were golden ,  set with precious stones .  His followers 
rode on blood horses  ;  while he ,  with a wonderful affectation 
of humility in the midst of his great splendour ,  ambled on 
a mule with a red velvet saddle and bridle and golden 
stirrups .  

Through the influence of this stately priest ,  a grand 
meeting was arranged to take place between the French and 
English Kings in France  ;  but on ground belonging to 
England .  A prodigious show of friendship and rejoicing 
was to be made on the occasion  ;  and heralds were sent to 
proclaim with brazen trumpets through all the principal 
cities of Europe ,  that ,  on a certain day ,  the Kings of France 
and England ,  as companions and brothers in arms ,  each 
attended by eighteen followers ,  would hold a tournament 
against all knights who might choose to come .  

Charles ,  the new Emperor of Germany  ( the old one being 
dead )  ,  wanted to prevent too cordial an alliance between 
these sovereigns ,  and came over to England before the King 
could repair to the place of meeting  ;  and ,  besides making 
an agreeable impression upon him ,  secured Wolseys interest 
by promising that his influence should make him Pope 
when the next vacancy occurred .  On the day when the 
Emperor left England ,  the King and all the Court went 
over to Calais ,  and thence to the place of meeting ,  between 
Ardres and Guisnes ,  commonly called the Field of the Cloth 
of Gold .  Here ,  all manner of expense and prodigality was 
lavished on the decorations of the show  ;  many of the 



262 A CHILDS HISTORY OF ENGLAND 

knights and gentlemen being so superbly dressed that 
it was said they carried their whole estates upon their 
shoulders .  

There were sham castles ,  temporary chapels ,  fountains 
running wine ,  great cellars full of wine free as water to all 
comers ,  silk tents ,  gold lace and foil ,  gilt lions ,  and such 
things without end  ;  and ,  in the midst of all ,  the rich 
Cardinal out - shone and out - glittered all the noblemen and 
gentlemen assembled .  After a treaty made between the two 
Kings with as much solemnity as if they had intended to 
keep it ,  the lists — nine hundred feet long ,  and three hundred 
and twenty broad — were opened for the tournament  ;  the 
Queens of France and England looking on with great array 
of lords and ladies .  Then ,  for ten days ,  the two sovereigns 
fought five combats every day ,  and always beat their polite 
adversaries  ;  though they do write that the King of England ,  
being thrown in a wrestle one day by the King of France ,  
lost his kingly temper with his brother in arms ,  and wanted 
to make a quarrel of it .  Then ,  there is a great story belong -  
ing to this Field of the Cloth of Gold ,  showing how the 
English were distrustful of the French ,  and the French of 
the English ,  until Francis rode alone one morning to Henrys 
tent  ;  and ,  going in before he was out of bed ,  told him in 
joke that he was his prisoner : and how Henry jumped out 
of bed and embraced Francis  ;  and how Francis helped Henry 
to dress ,  and warmed his linen for him  ;  and how Henry -  
gave Francis a splendid jewelled collar ,  and how Francis 
gave Henry ,  in return ,  a costly bracelet ,  All this and 
a great deal more was so written about ,  and sung about ,  
and talked about at that time  ( and ,  indeed ,  since that time 
too )  ,  that the world has had good cause to be sick of it ,  
for ever .  

Of course ,  nothing came of all these fine doings but a 
speedy renewal of the war between England and France ,  
in which the two Koyal companions and brothers in arms 
longed very earnestly to damage one another .  But ,  beiore 
it broke out again ,  the Duke of Buckingham was shamefully 
executed on Tower Hill ,  on the evidence of a discharged 
servant — really for nothing ,  except the folly of having 
believed in a friar «>f the name of Hopkins ,  who had pre -  
tended to be a prophet ,  and who had mumbled and jumbled 
out some nonsen - e about the Dukes son being destined 
to be very great in the land .  It was believed that the un -  



HENRY THE EIGHTH 263 

fortunate Duke had given offence to the great Cardinal by 
expressing his mind freely about the expense and absurdity 
of the whole business of the Field of the Cloth of Gold .  
At any rate ,  he was beheaded ,  as I have said ,  for nothing .  
And the people who saw it clone were very angry ,  and cried 
out that it was the work of  "  the butchers son  !   "  

The new war was a short one ,  though the Earl of Surrey 
invaded France again ,  and did some injury to that country .  
It ended in another treaty of peace between the two kingdoms ,  
and in the discovery that the Emperor of Germany was not 
such a good friend to England in reality ,  as he pretended 
to l ) e .  Neither did he keep his promise to Wolsey to make 
him Pope ,  though the King urged him .  Two Popes died 
in pretty quick succession  ;  but the foreign priests were too 
much for the Cardinal  ,  and kept him out of the post .  So the 
Cardinal and King together found out that the Emperor of 
Germany was not a man to keep faith with  ;  broke off a pro -  
jected marriage between the Kings daughter Mary ,  Princess 
of Wales ,  and that sovereign  ;  and began to consider whether 
it might not be well to marry the young lady ,  either to 
Francis himself ,  or to his eldest son .  

There now arose at Wittemberg ,  in Germany ,  the great 
leader of the mighty change in England which is called The 
Eeformation ,  and which set the people free from their slavery 
to the priests .  This was a learned Doctor ,  named Martin 
Luther ,  who knew all about them ,  for he had been a priest ,  
and even a monk ,  himself .  The preaching and writing of 
Wickliffe had set a number of men thinking on this subject  ;  
and Luther ,  finding one day to his great surprise ,  that there 
really was a book called the New Testament which the priests 
did not allow to be read ,  and which contained truths that 
they suppressed ,  began to be very vigorous against the whole 
body ,  from the Pope downward .  It happened ,  while he was 
yet only beginning his vast work of awakening the nation ,  
that an impudent fellow named Tetzel ,  a friar of very bad 
character ,  came into his neighbourhood selling what were 
called Indulgences ,  by wholesale ,  to raise money for beautify -  
ing the great Cathedral of St .  Peters ,  at Eome .  Whoever 
bought an Indulgence of the Pope was supposed to buy 
himself off from the punishment of Heaven for his offences .  
Luther told the people that these Indulgences were worthless 
bits of paper ,  before God ,  and that Tetzel and his masters 
were a crew of impostors in selling them .  



264 A CHILDS HISTORY OF ENGLAND 

The King and the Cardinal were mightily indignant at 
this presumption  ;  and the King  ( with the help of Sir Thomas 
More ,  a wise man ,  whom he afterwards repaid hy striking 
off his head )  even wrote a book about it ,  with which the 
Pope was so well pleased that he gave the King the title of 
Defender of the Faith .  The King and the Cardinal also 
issued naming warnings to the people not to read Luthers 
books ,  on pain of excommunication .  But they did read 
them for all that : and the rumour of what was in them 
spread far and wide .  

When this great change was thus going on ,  the King 
began to show himself in his truest and worst colours .  
Anne Boleyn ,  the pretty little girl who had gone abroad to 
France with his sister ,  was by this time grown up to be very 
beautiful ,  and was one of the ladies in attendance on Queen 
Catherine .  Now ,  Queen Catherine was no longer young or 
handsome ,  and it is likely that she was not particularly 
good - tempered  ;  having been always rather melancholy ,  and 
having been made more so by the deaths of four of her 
children when they were very young .  So ,  the King fell in 
love with the fair Anne Boleyn ,  and said to himself ,   "  How 
can I be best rid of my own troublesome wife whom I am 
tired of ,  and marry Anne ?  "  

You recollect that Queen Catherine had been the wife of 
Henrys brother .  What does the King do ,  after thinking it 
over ,  but calls his favourite priests about him ,  and says ,  O  !  
his mind is in such a dreadful state ,  and he is so frightfully 
uneasy ,  because he is afraid it was not lawful for him to 
marry the Queen  !  Not one of those priests had the courage 
to hint that it was rather curious he had never thought of 
that before ,  and that his mind seemed to have been in a 
tolerably jolly condition during a great many years ,  in which 
he certainly had not fretted himself thin  ;  but ,  they all said .  
Ah  !  that was very true ,  and it was a serious business  ;  and 
perhaps the best way to make it right ,  would be for his 
Majesty to be divorced  !  The King replied ,  Yes ,  he thought 
that would be the best way ,  certainly  ;  so they all went to 
work .  

If I were to relate to you the intrigues and plots that took 
place in the endeavour to get this divorce ,  you would think 
the History of England the most tiresome book in the world .  
So I shall say no more ,  than that after a vast deal of negotia -  
tion and evasion ,  the Pope issued a commission to Cardinal 




CATHERINE WAS OLD ,  SO HE FELL IN LOVE WITH 
ANNE EOLEYN 



I .  



y 3 



HENRY THE EIGHTH 267 

Wolsey and Cardinal Campeggio  ( whom he sent over from 
Italy for the purpose )  ,  to try the whole case in England .  It 
is supposed — and I think with reason — that Wolsey was the 
Queens enemy ,  because she had reproved him for his proud 
and gorgeous manner of life .  But ,  he did not at first know 
that the King wanted to marry Anne Boleyn  ;  and when he 
did know it ,  he even went down on his knees ,  in the endeavour 
to dissuade him .  

The Cardinals opened their court in the Convent of the 
Black Friars ,  near to where the bridge of that name in 
London now stands  ;  and the King and Queen ,  that they 
might be near it ,  took up their lodgings at the adjoining 
palace of Bridewell ,  of which nothing now remains but a bad 
prison .  On the opening of the court ,  when the King and 
Queen were called on to appear ,  that poor ill - used lady ,  with 
a dignity and firmness and yet with a womanly affection 
worthy to be always admired ,  went and kneeled at the Kings 
feet ,  and said that she had come ,  a stranger ,  to his dominions  ;  
that she had been a good and true wife to him for twenty 
years  ;  and that she could acknowledge no power in those 
Cardinals to try whether she should be considered his wife 
after all that time ,  or should be put away .  With that ,  she 
got up and left the court ,  and would never afterwards come 
back to it .  

The King pretended to be very much overcome ,  and said ,  
O  !  my lords and gentlemen ,  what a good woman she was 
to be sure ,  and how delighted he would be to live with her 
unto death ,  but for that terrible uneasiness in his mind 
which was quite wearing him away  !  So ,  the case went on ,  
and there was nothing but talk for two months .  Then 
Cardinal Campeggio ,  who ,  on behalf of the Pope ,  w r anted no -  
thing so much as delay ,  adjourned it for two more months  ;  
and before that time was elapsed ,  the Pope himself adjourned 
it indefinitely ,  by requiring the King and Queen to come to 
Kome and have it tried there .  But by good luck for the 
King ,  word was brought to him by some of his people ,  that 
they had happened to meet at supper ,  Thomas Cranmer ,  
a learned Doctor of Cambridge ,  who had proposed to urge 
the Pope on ,  by referring the case to all the learned doctors 
and bishops ,  here and there and everywhere ,  and getting 
their opinions that the Kings marriage was unlawful .  The 
King ,  who was now in a hurry to marry Anne Boleyn ,  
thought this such a good idea ,  that he sent for Cranmer ,  



268 A CHILDS HISTOKY OF ENGLAND 

post haste ,  and said to Lord Rochfort ,  Anne Boleyns 
father ,   " Take this learned Doctor down to your country? 
house ,  and there let him have a good room for a study ,  and 
no end of hooks out of which to prove that I may marry 
your daughter .  "  Lord Rochfort ,  not at all reluctant ,  made 
the learned Doctor as comfortable as he could  ;  and the 
learned Doctor went to work to prove his case .  All this 
time ,  the King and Anne Boleyn were writing letters to 
one another almost daily ,  full of impatience to have the 
case settled  ;  and Anne Boleyn was showing herself  ( as 
I think )  very worthy of the fate which afterwards befel 
her .  

It was bad for Cardinal Wolsey that he had left Cranmer 
to render this help .  It was worse for him that he had tried 
to dissuade the King from marrying Anne Boleyn .  Such 
a servant as he ,  to such a master as Henry ,  would probably 
have fallen in any case  ;  but ,  between the hatred of the 
party of the Queen that was ,  and the hatred of the party of 
the Queen that was to be ,  he fell suddenly and heavily .  
Going down one day to the Court of Chancery ,  where he 
now presided ,  he was waited upon by the Dukes of Norfolk 
and Suffolk ,  who told him that they brought an order to 
him to resign that office ,  and to withdraw quietly to a house 
he had at Esher ,  in Surrey .  The Cardinal refusing ,  they 
rode off to the King  ;  and next day came back with a letter 
from him ,  on reading which ,  the Cardinal submitted .  An 
inventory was made out of all the riches in his palace at 
York Place  ( now Whitehall )  ,  and he went sorrowfully up 
the river ,  in his barge ,  to Putney .  An abject man he was ,  
in spite of his pride  ;  for being overtaken ,  riding out of that 
place towards Esher ,  by one of the Kings chamberlains who 
brought him a kind message and a ring ,  he alighted from 
his mule ,  took off his cap ,  and kneeled down in the dirt .  
His poor Fool ,  whom in his prosperous days he had always 
kept in his palace to entertain him ,  cut a far better figure 
than he  ;  for ,  when the Cardinal said to the chamberlain that 
he had nothing to send to his lord the King as a present ,  but 
that jester who was a most excellent one ,  it took six strong 
yeomen to remove the faithful fool from his master .  

The once proud Cardinal was soon further disgraced ,  and 
wrote the most abject letters to his vile sovereign  ;  who 
humbled him one day and encouraged him the next ,  accord -  
ing to his humour ,  until he was at last ordered to go and 



HENRY THE EIGHTH 269 

reside in his diocese of York .  He said he was too poor  ;  
but I dont know how he made that out ,  for he took a hun -  
dred and sixty servants with him ,  and seventy - two cart -  
loads of furniture ,  food ,  and wine .  He remained in that 
part of the country for the best part of a year ,  and showed 
himself so improved by his misfortunes ,  and was so mild 
and so conciliating ,  that he won all hearts .  And indeed ,  
even in his proud days ,  he had done some magnificent 
things for learning and education .  At last ,  he was arrested 
for high treason  ;  and ,  coming slowly on his journey towards 
London ,  got as far as Leicester .  Arriving at Leicester 
Abbey after dark ,  and very ill ,  he said — when the monks 
came out at the gate with lighted torches to receive him — 
that he had come to lay his bones among them .  He had 
indeed  ;  for he was taken to a bed ,  from which he never 
rose again .  His last words were ,  • Had I but served God as 
diligently as I have served the King ,  He would not have 
given me over ,  in my grey hairs .  Howbeit ,  this is my just 
reward for my pains and diligence ,  not regarding my service 
to God ,  but only my duty to my prince .  "  The news of his 
death was quickly carried to the King ,  who was amusing 
himself with archery in the garden of the magnificent 
Palace at Hampton Court ,  which that very Wolsey had 
presented to him .  The greatest emotion his royal miiui 
displayed at the loss of a servant so faithful and so ruined ,  
was a particular desire to lay hold of fifteen hundred pounds 
which the Cardinal was reported to have hidden somewhere .  
The opinions concerning the divorce ,  of the learned doctors 
and bishops and others ,  being at last collected ,  and being 
generally in the Kings favour ,  were forwarded to the Pope ,  
with an entreaty that he would now grant it .  The unfor -  
tunate Pope ,  who was a timid man ,  was half distracted 
between his fear of his authority being set aside in England 
if he did not do as he was asked ,  and his dread of offending 
the Emperor of Germany ,  who was Queen Catherines 
nephew .  In this state of mind he still evaded and did 
nothing .  Then ,  Thomas Cromwell ,  who had been one of 
Wolsey s faithful attendants ,  and had remained so even in 
his decline ,  advised the King to take the matter into his 
own hands ,  and make himself the head of the whole Church .  
This ,  the King by various artful means ,  began to do  ;  but 
he recompensed the clergy by allowing them to burn as 
many people as they pleased ,  for holding Luthers opinions .  



270 A CHILD S HISTORY OF ENGLAND 

You must understand that Sir Thomas More ,  the wise man 
who had helped the King with his book ,  had been made 
Chancellor in Wolseys place .  But ,  as he was truly attached 
to the Church as it was even in its abuses ,  he ,  in this state 
of things ,  resigned .  

Being now quite resolved to get rid of Queen Catherine ,  
and to marry Anne Boleyn without more ado ,  the King 
made Cranmer Archbishop of Canterbury ,  and directed 
Queen Catherine to leave the Court .  She obeyed  ;  but 
replied that wherever she went ,  she was Queen of England 
still ,  and would remain so ,  to the last .  The King then 
married Anne Boleyn privately  ;  and the new Archbishop 
of Canterbury ,  within half a year ,  declared his marriage 
with Queen Catherine void ,  and crowned Anne Boleyn 
Queen .  

She might have known that no good could ever come 
from such wrong ,  and that the corpulent brute who had been 
so faithless and so cruel to his first wife ,  could be more 
faithless and more cruel to his second .  She might have 
known that ,  even when he was in love with her ,  he had 
been a mean and selfish coward ,  running away ,  like a 
frightened cur ,  from her society and her house ,  when a dan -  
gerous sickness broke out in it ,  and when she might easily 
have taken it and died ,  as several of the household did .  
But ,  Anne Boleyn arrived at all this knowledge too late ,  
and bought it at a dear price .  Her bad marriage with 
a worse man came to its natural end .  Its natural end was 
not ,  as we shall too soon see ,  a natural death for her .  



CHAPTER XXVIII 

ENGLAND UNDER HENRY THE EIGHTH 

Part the Second .  

The Pope was thrown into a very angry state of mind when 
he heard of the Kings marriage ,  and fumed exceedingly .  
Many of the English monks and friars ,  seeing that their 
order was in danger ,  did the same  ;  some even declaimed 
against the King in church before his face ,  and were not 
to be stopped until he himself roared out  "  Silence  !   "  The 
King ,  not much the worse for this ,  took it pretty quietly  ;  
and was very glad when his Queen gave birth to a daughter ,  
who was christened Elizabeth ,  and declared Princess of 
Wales as her sister Mary had already been .  

One of the most atrocious features of this reign was that 
Henry the Eighth was always trimming between the reformed 
religion and the unreformed one  ;  so that the more he 
quarrelled with the Pope ,  the more of his own subjects he 
roasted alive for not holding the Popes opinions .  Thus ,  an 
unfortunate student named John Frith ,  and a poor simple 
tailor named Andrew Hewet who loved him very much ,  
and said that whatever John Frith believed lie believed ,  
were burnt in Smithfield — to show what a capital Christian 
the King was .  

But ,  these were speedily followed by two much greater 
victims ,  Sir Thomas More ,  and John Fisher ,  the Bishop of 
Bochester .  The latter ,  who was a good and amiable old 
man ,  had committed no greater offence than believing in 
Elizabeth Barton ,  called the Maid of Kent— another of 
those ridiculous women who pretended to be inspired ,  and 
to make all sorts of heavenly revelations ,  though they 
indeed uttered nothing but evil nonsense .  For this offence 
— as it was pretended ,  but really for denying the King to 
be the supreme Head of the Church — he got into trouble ,  
and was put in prison  ;  but ,  even then ,  he might have 



272 A CHILD S HISTORY OF ENGLAND 

been suffered to die naturally  ( short work having been 
made of executing the Kentish Maid and her principal 
followers )  ,  but that the Pope ,  to spite the King ,  resolved 
to make him a cardinal .  Upon that the King made a fero -  
cious joke to the effect that the Pope might send Fisher 
a red hat — which is the way they make a cardinal — but he 
should have no head on which to wear it  ;  and he was tried 
with all unfairness and injustice ,  and sentenced to death .  
He died like a noble and virtuous old man ,  and left a worthy 
name behind him .  The King supposed ,  I dare say ,  that 
Sir Thomas More would be frightened by this example  ;  
but ,  as he was not to be easily terrified ,  and ,  thoroughly 
believing in the Pope ,  had made up his mind that the King 
was not the rightful Head of the Church ,  he positively 
refused to say that he was .  For this crime he too was tried 
and sentenced ,  after having been in prison a whole year .  
When he was doomed to death ,  and came away from his 
trial with the edge of the executioners axe turned towards 
him — as was always done in those times when a state 
prisoner came to that hopeless pass — he bore it quite serenely ,  
and gave his blessing to his son ,  who pi*essed through the 
crowd in Westminster Hall and kneeled down to receive it .  
But ,  when he got to the Tower Wharf on his way back to 
his prison ,  and his favourite daughter .  Margaret Roper ,  
a very good woman ,  rushed through the guards again and 
again ,  to kiss him and to weep upon his neck ,  he was over -  
come at last .  He soon recovered ,  and never more showed 
any feeling but cheerfulness and courage .  When he Mas 
going up the steps of the scaffold to his death ,  he said jok -  
ingly to the Lieutenant of the Tower ,  observing that they 
were weak and shook beneath his tread ,   " I pray y<>u .  
master Lieutenant ,  see me safe up : and .  for my coming 
down ,  I can shift for myself .  "  Also he said to the execu -  
tioner ,  after he had laid his head upon the block .   "  Let me 
put my beard out of the way: for that ,  at least  .  has never 
committed any treason .  "  Then his head was struck off 
at a blow .  These two executions were worthy of King 
Henry the Eighth .  Sir Thomas More was one of the most 
virtuous men in his dominions ,  and the Bishop was one 
of his oldest and truest friends .  But to be a friend of that 
fellow was almost as dangerous as to be his wife .  

When the news of these two murders got to Rome ,  the 
Pope raged against the murderer more than ever Pope raged 



HENRY THE EIGHTH 273 

since the world began ,  and prepared a Bull ,  ordering his 
subjects to take arms against him and dethrone him .  The 
King took all possible precautions to keep that docu -  
ment out of his dominions ,  and set to work in return to 
suppress a great number of the English monasteries and 
abbeys .  

This destruction was begun by a body of commissioners ,  
of whom Cromwell  ( whom the King had taken into great 
favour )  was the head  ;  and was carried on through some few 
years to its entire completion .  There is no doubt that many 
of these religious establishments were religious in nothing 
but in name ,  and wex - e crammed with lazy ,  indolent ,  and 
sensual monks .  There is no doubt that they imposed upon 
the people in every possible way  ;  that they had images 
moved by wires ,  which they pretended were miraculously 
moved by Heaven  ;  that they had among them a whole tun 
measure full of teeth ,  all purporting to have come out of the 
head of one saint ,  who must indeed have been a very extra -  
ordinary person with that enormous allowance of grinders  ;  
that they had bits of coal which they said had fried Saint 
Lawrence ,  and bits of toe - nails which they said belonged to 
other famous saints  ;  penknives ,  and boots ,  and girdles ,  
which they said belonged to others  ;  and that all these bits 
of rubbish were called Relics ,  and adored by the ignorant 
people .  But ,  on the other hand ,  there is no doubt either ,  
that the Kings officers and men punished the good monks 
with the bad  ;  did great injustice  ;  demolished many beauti -  
ful things and many valuable libraries  ;  destroyed numbers 
of paintings ,  stained glass windows ,  fine pavements ,  and 
carvings  ;  and that the whole court were ravenously greedy 
and rapacious for the division of this great spoil among 
them .  The King seems to have grown almost mad in the 
ardour of this pursuit  ;  for he declared Thomas a Becket 
a traitor ,  though he had been dead so many years ,  and had 
his body dug up out of his grave .  He must have been as 
miraculous as the monks pretended ,  if they had told the 
truth ,  for he was found with one head on his shoulders ,  and 
they had shown another as his undoubted and genuine head 
ever since his death : it had brought them vast sums of 
money ,  too .  The gold and jewels on his shrine filled two 
great chests ,  and eight men tottered as they carried them 
away .  How rich the monasteries were you may infer from 
the fact that ,  when they were all suppressed ,  one hundred 



274 A CHILD S HISTORY OF ENGLAND 

and thirty thousand pounds a year — in those days an im -  
mense sum— came to the Crown .  

These things were not done without causing great discon -  
tent among the people .  The monks had been good land -  
lords and hospitable entertainers of all travellers ,  and had 
been accustomed to give away a great deal of corn ,  and fruit ,  
and meat ,  and other things .  In those days it was difficult 
to change goods into money ,  in consequence of the roads 
being very few and very bad ,  and the carts and waggons 
of the worst description  ;  and they must either have given 
away some of the good things they possessed in enormous 
quantities ,  or have suffered them to spoil and moulder .  So ,  
many of the people missed what it was more agreeable to 
get idly than to work for  ;  and the monks who were driven 
out of their homes and wandered about encouraged their 
discontent  ;  and there were ,  consequently ,  great risings in 
Lincolnshire and Yorkshire .  These were put down by 
terrific executions ,  from which the monks themselves did 
not escape ,  and the King went on grunting and growling in 
his own fat way ,  like a Eoyal pig .  

I have told all this story of the religious houses at one 
time ,  to make it plainer ,  and to get back to the Kings 
domestic affairs .  

The unfortunate Queen Catherine was by this time dead  ;  
and the King was by this time as tired of his second Queen 
as he had been of his first .  As he had fallen in love with 
Anne when she was in the service of Catherine ,  so he now 
fell in love with another lady in the service of Anne .  See 
how wicked deeds are punished ,  and how bitterly and self -  
reproachfully the Queen must now have thought of her own 
rise to the throne  !  The new fancy was a Lady Jane 
Seymour  ;  and the King no sooner set his mind on her ,  
than he resolved to have Anne Boleyns head .  So ,  he 
brought a number of charges against Anne ,  accusing her 
of dreadful crimes which she had never committed ,  and 
implicating in them her own brother and certain gentlemen 
in her service : among whom one Norris ,  and Mark Smeaton 
a musician ,  are best remembered .  As the lords and coun -  
cillors were as afraid of the King and as subservient to him 
as the meanest peasant in England was ,  they brought in 
Anne Boleyn guilty ,  and the other unfortunate persons 
accused with her ,  guilty too .  Those gentlemen died like 
men ,  with the exception of Smeaton ,  who had been tempted 



HENRY THE EIGHTH 275 

by the King into telling lies ,  which he called confessions ,  
and who had expected to be pardoned  ;  but who ,  I am very 
glad to say ,  was not .  There was then only the Queen to 
dispose of .  She had been surrounded in the Tower with 
women spies  ;  had been monstrously persecuted and foully 
slandered  ;  and had received no justice .  But her spirit rose 
with her afflictions  ;  and ,  after having in vain tried to soften 
the King by writing an affecting letter to him which still 
exists ,   " from her doleful prison in the Tower ,  "  she resigned 
herself to death .  She said to those about her ,  very cheer -  
fully ,  that she had heard say the executioner was a good 
one ,  and that she had a little neck  ( she laughed and clasped 
it with her hands as she said that )  ,  and would soon be out 
of her pain .  And she was soon out of her pain ,  poor creature ,  
on the Green inside the Tower ,  and her body was flung into 
an old box and put away in the ground under the chapel .  

There is a story that the King sat in his palace listening 
very anxiously for the sound of the cannon which was to 
announce this new murder  ;  and that ,  when he heard it 
come booming on the air ,  he rose up in great spirits and 
ordered out his dogs to go a - hunting .  He was bad enough 
to do it  ;  but whether he did it or not ,  it is certain that he 
married Jane Seymour the very next day .  

I have not much pleasure in recording that she lived 
just long enough to give birth to a son who was christened 
Edward ,  and then to die of a fever : for ,  I cannot but think 
that any woman who married such a ruffian ,  and knew what 
innocent blood was on his hands ,  deserved the axe that 
would assuredly have fallen on the neck of Jane Seymour ,  if 
she had lived much longer .  

Cranmer had done what he could to save some of the 
Church property for purposes of religion and education  ;  
but ,  the great families had been so hungry to get hold of it ,  
that very little could be rescued for such objects .  Even 
Miles Coverdale ,  who did the people the inestimable service 
of translating the Bible into English  ( which the unreformed 
religion never permitted to be done )  ,  was left in poverty 
while the great families clutched the Church lands and 
money .  The people had been told that when the Crown 
came into possession of these funds ,  it would not be necessary 
to tax them  ;  but they were taxed afresh directly afterwards .  
It was fortunate for them ,  indeed ,  that so many nobles were 
so greedy for this wealth  ;  since ,  if it had remained with 



276 a childs histoey of England 

the Crown ,  there might have been no end to tyrann )  7 for 
hundreds of years .  One of the most active writers on the 
Churchs side against the King was a member of his own 
family — a sort of distant cousin ,  Reginald Pole by name — ■ 
who attacked him in the most violent manner  ( though he 
received a pension from him all the time )  ,  and fought for 
the Church with his pen ,  day and night .  As he was beyond 
the Kings reach — being in Italy — the King politely invited 
him over to discuss the subject  ;  but he ,  knowing better 
than to come ,  and wisely staying where he was ,  the Kings 
rage fell upon his brother Lord Montague ,  the Marquis of 
Exeter ,  and some other gentlemen : who were tried for high 
treason in corresponding with him and aiding him — which 
they probably did — and were all executed .  The Pope made 
Reginald Pole a cardinal  ;  but .  so much against his will ,  
that it is thought he even aspired in his own mind to the 
vacant throne of England ,  and had hopes of marrying the 
Princess Mary .  His being made a high priest ,  however ,  
put an end to all that .  His mother ,  the venerable Countess 
of Salisbury — who was ,  unfortunately for herself ,  within 
the tyrants reach — was the last of his relatives on whom 
his wrath fell .  When she was told to lay her grey head 
upon the block ,  she answered the executioner .   "  No  !  My 
head never committed treason ,  and if you want it ,  you shall 
seize it .  "  So ,  she ran round and round the scaffold with 
the executioner striking at her ,  and her grey hair bedabbled 
with blood  ;  and even when they held her down upon the 
block she moved her head about to the last ,  resolved to he 
no party to her own barbarous murder .  All this the people 
bore ,  as they had borne everything else .  

Indeed they bore much more  ;  for the slow fires of Smith -  
held were continually burning ,  and people were constantly 
being roasted to death — still to show what a good Christian 
the King was .  He defied the Pope and his Bull ,  which was 
now issued ,  and had come into England  ;  but he burned 
innumerable people whose only offence was that they differed 
from the Popes religious opinions .  There was a wretched 
man named Lambert ,  among others ,  who was tried for this 
before the King ,  and with whom six bishops argued one 
after another .  When he was quite exhausted  ( as well he 
might be ,  after six bishops )  ,  he threw himself on the Kings 
mercy  ;  but the King Mustered out that lie had no mercy 
for heretics .  So .  he too led the fire .  



HENEY THE EIGHTH 277 

All this the people bore ,  and more than all this yet .  The 
national spirit seems to have been banished from the king -  
dom at this time .  The very people who were executed for 
treason ,  the very wives and friends of the  " bluff "  King ,  
spoke of him on the scaffold as a good prince ,  and a gentle 
prince — just as serfs in similar circumstances have been 
known to do ,  under the Sultan and Bashaws of the East ,  or 
under the fierce old tyrants of Eussia ,  who poured boiling 
and freezing water on them alternately ,  until they died .  
The Parliament were as bad as the rest ,  and gave the King 
whatever he wanted  ;  among other vile accommodations ,  
they gave him new powers of murdering ,  at his will and 
pleasure ,  any one whom he might choose to call a traitor .  
But the worst measure they passed was an Act of Six 
Articles ,  commonly called at the time  "  the whip with 
six strings  ;   "  which punished offences against the Popes 
opinions ,  without mercy ,  and enforced the very worst parts 
of the monkish religion .  Cranmer would have modified it ,  
if he could  ;  but ,  being overborne by the Romish party ,  had 
not the power .  As one of the articles declared that priests 
should not marry ,  and as he was married himself ,  he sent 
his wife and children into Germany ,  and began to tremble 
at his danger  ;  none the less because he was ,  and had long 
been ,  the Kings friend .  This whip of six strings was made 
under the Kings own eye .  It should never be forgotten of 
him how cruelly he supported the worst of the Popish 
doctrines when there was nothing to be got by opposing 
them .  

This amiable monarch now thought of taking another 
wife .  He proposed to the Erench King to have some of the 
ladies of the French Court exhibited before him ,  that he 
might make his Royal choice  ;  but the Erench King answered 
that he would rather not have his ladies trotted out to be 
shown like horses at a fair .  He proposed to the Dowager 
Duchess of Milan ,  who replied that she might have thought 
of such a match if she had had two heads  ;  but ,  that only 
owning one ,  she must beg to keep it safe .  At last Cromwell 
represented that there was a Protestant Princess in Germany 
— those who held the reformed religion were called Protes -  
tants ,  because their leaders had Protested against the abuses 
and impositions of the unreformed Church — named Anne of 
Cleves ,  who was beautiful ,  and would answer the purpose 
admirably .  The King said was she a large woman ,  because 



278 A CHILDS HISTORY OF ENGLAND 

he must have a fat wife?  "  O yes ,  "  said Cromwell ;   " she 
was very large ,  just the thing .  "  On hearing this the King 
sent over his famous painter ,  Hans Holbein ,  to take her 
portrait .  Hans made her out to be so good - looking that the 
King was satisfied ,  and the marriage was arranged .  But ,  
whether anybody had paid Hans to touch up the picture  ;  
or whether Hans ,  like one or two other painters ,  flattered 
a princess in the ordinary way of business ,  I cannot say : all 
I know is ,  that when Anne came over and the King went 
to Kochester to meet her ,  and first saw her without her 
seeing him ,  he swore she was  "  a great Flanders mare ,  "  and 
said he would never marry her .  Being obliged to do it now 
matters had gone so far ,  he would not give her the presents 
he had prepared ,  and would never notice her .  He never 
forgave Cromwell his part in the affair .  His downfall dates 
from that time .  

It was quickened by his enemies ,  in the interests of the 
unreformed religion ,  putting in the Kings way ,  at a state 
dinner ,  a niece of the Duke of Norfolk ,  Catherine Howard ,  
a young lady of fascinating manners ,  though small in stature 
and not particularly beautiful .  Falling in love with her on 
the spot ,  the King soon divorced Anne of Cleves after 
making her the subject of much brutal talk ,  on pretence 
that she had been previously betrothed to some one else — 
which would never do for one of his dignity — and married 
Catherine .  It is probable that on his wedding day ,  of all 
days in the year ,  he sent his faithful Cromwell to the 
scaffold ,  and had his head struck off .  He further celebrated 
the occasion by burning at one time ,  and causing to be drawn 
to the fire on the same hurdles ,  some Protestant prisoners 
for denying the Popes doctrines ,  and some Roman Catholic 
prisoners for denying his own supremacy .  Still the people 
bore it ,  and not a gentleman in England raised his hand .  

But ,  by a just retribution ,  it soon came out that Catherine 
Howard ,  before her marriage ,  had been really guilty of such 
crimes as the King had falsely attributed to his second wife 
Anne Boleyn  ;  so ,  again the dreadful axe made the King 
a widower ,  and this Queen passed away as so many in that 
reign had passed away before her .  As an appropriate pursuit 
under the circumstances ,  Henry then applied himself to 
superintending the composition of a religious book called 
•A necessary doctrine for any Christian Man . * He must 
have been a little confused in his mind ,  I think ,  at about 



HENKY THE EIGHTH 279 

this period  ;  for he was so false to himself as to be true to 
some one: that some one being Cranmer ,  whom the Duke 
of Norfolk and others of his enemies tried to ruin  ;  but to 
whom the King was steadfast ,  and to whom he one night 
gave his ring ,  charging him when he should find himself ,  
next day ,  accused of treason ,  to show it to the council 
board .  This Cranmer did to the confusion of his enemies .  
I suppose the King thought he might want him a little 
longer .  

He married yet once more .  Yes ,  strange to say ,  he found 
in England another woman who would become his wife ,  and 
she was Catherine Parr ,  widow of Lord Latimer .  She 
leaned towards the reformed religion  ;  and it is some 
comfort to know ,  that she tormented the King considerably 
by arguing a variety of doctrinal points with him on all 
possible occasions .  She had very nearly done this to her 
own destruction .  After one of these conversations the King 
in a very black mood actually instructed Gardiner ,  one of 
his Bishops who favoured the Popish opinions ,  to draw 
a bill of accusation against her ,  which would have inevitably 
brought her to the scaffold where her predecessors had died ,  
but that one of her friends picked up the paper of instruc -  
tions which had been dropped in the palace ,  and gave her 
timely notice .  She fell ill with terror  ;  but managed the 
King so well when he came to entrap her into further state -  
ments — by saying that she had only spoken on such points 
to divert his mind and to get some information from his 
extraordinary wisdom — that he gave her a kiss and called 
her his sweetheart .  And ,  when the Chancellor came next 
day actually to take her to the Tower ,  the King sent him 
about his business ,  and honoured him with the epithets of 
a beast ,  a knave ,  and a fool .  So near was Catherine Parr to 
the block ,  and so narrow was her escape  !  

There was war with Scotland in this reign ,  and a short 
clumsy war with France for favouring Scotland  ;  but ,  the 
events at home were so dreadful ,  and leave such an enduring 
stain on the country ,  that I need say no more of what 
happened abroad .  

A few more horrors ,  and this reign is over .  There was 
a lady ,  Anne Askew ,  in Lincolnshire ,  who inclined to the 
Protestant opinions ,  and whose husband being a fierce 
Catholic ,  turned her out of his house .  She came to London ,  
and was considered as offending against the six articles ,  and 



280 A CHILDS HISTORY OF ENGLAND 

was taken to the Tower ,  and put upon the rack — probably 
because it was hoped that she might ,  in her agony ,  criminate 
some obnoxious persons  ;  if falsely ,  so much the better .  She 
was tortured without uttering a cry ,  until the Lieutenant of 
the Tower would suffer his men to torture her no more ;  
and then two priests who were present actually pulled off 
their robes ,  and turned the wheels of the rack with their 
own hands ,  so rending and twisting and breaking her that 
she was afterwards carried to the fire in a chair .  She was 
burned with three others ,  a gentleman ,  a clergyman ,  and 
a tailor  ;  and so the world went on .  

Either the King became afraid of the power of the Duke 
of Norfolk ,  and his son the Earl of Surrey ,  or they gave him 
some offence ,  but he resolved to pull them down ,  to follow 
all the rest who were gone .  The son was tried first— of 
course for nothing— and defended himself bravely  ;  but 
of course he was found guilty ,  and of course he was 
executed .  Then his father was laid hold of ,  and left for 
death too .  

But the King himself was left for death by a Greater 
King ,  and the earth was to be rid of him at last .  He was 
now a swollen ,  hideous spectacle ,  with a great hole in his 
leg ,  and so odious to every sense that it was dreadful to 
approach him .  When he was found to be dying ,  Cranmer 
was sent for from his palace at Croydon ,  and came with all 
speed ,  but found him speechless .  Happily ,  in that hour he 
perished .  He was in the fifty - sixth year of his age ,  and the 
thirty - eighth of his reign .  

Henry the Eighth has been favoured by some Protestant 
writers ,  because the Eeformation was achieved in his time .  
But the mighty merit of it lies with other men and not 
with him  ;  and it can be rendered none the worse by this 
monsters crimes ,  and none the better by any defence of 
them .  The plain truth is ,  that he was a most intolerable 
ruffian ,  a disgrace to human nature ,  and a blot of blood and 
grease upon the History of England .  



CHAPTER XXIX 

ENGLAND UNDEK EDWARD THE SIXTH 

Henry the Eighth had made a will ,  appointing a council 
of sixteen to govern the kingdom for his son while he was 
under age  ( he was now only ten years old )  ,  and another 
council of twelve to help them .  The most powerful of the 
first council was the Earl of Hertford ,  the young Kings 
uncle ,  who lost no time in bringing his nephew with great 
state up to Enfield ,  and thence to the Tower .  It was con -  
sidered at the time a striking proof of virtue in the young 
King that he was sorry for his fathers death  ;  but ,  as 
common subjects have that virtue too ,  sometimes ,  we will 
say no more about it .  

There was a curious part of the late Kings will ,  requiring 
his executors to fulfil whatever promises he had made .  
Some of the court wondering what these might be ,  the Earl 
of Hertford and the other noblemen interested ,  said that 
they were promises to advance and enrich them ,  So ,  the 
Earl of Hertford made himself Duke of Somerset ,  and 
made his brother Edward Seymour a baron  ;  and there 
were various similar promotions ,  all very agreeable to the 
parties concerned ,  and very dutiful ,  no doubt ,  to the late 
Kings memory .  To be more dutiful still ,  they made them -  
selves rich out of the Church lands ,  and were very comfort -  
able .  The new Duke of Somerset caused himself to be 
declared Protector of the kingdom ,  and was ,  indeed ,  the 
King .  

As young Edward the Sixth had been brought up in the 
principles of the Protestant religion ,  everybody knew that 
they would be maintained .  But Cranmer ,  to whom they 
were chiefly entrusted ,  advanced them steadily and tem -  
perately .  Many superstitious and ridiculous practices were 
stopped : but practices which were harmless were not inter -  
fered with .  



282 A CHILDS HISTORY OF ENGLAND 

The Duke of Somerset ,  the Protector ,  was anxious to have 
the young King engaged in marriage to the young Queen of 
Scotland ,  in order to prevent that princess from making an 
alliance with any foreign power  ;  but ,  as a large party in 
Scotland were unfavourable to this plan ,  he invaded that 
country .  His excuse for doing so was ,  that the Border men 
— that is ,  the Scotch who lived in that part of the country 
where England and Scotland joined — troubled the English 
very much .  But there were two sides to this question  ;  for 
the English Border men troubled the Scotch too  ;  and ,  
through many long years ,  there were perpetual border 
quarrels which gave rise to numbers of old tales and songs .  
However ,  the Protector invaded Scotland  ;  and Akkan ,  the 
Scottish Regent ,  with an army twice as large as his ,  advanced 
to meet him .  They encountered on the banks of the river 
Esk ,  within a few miles of Edinburgh  ;  and there ,  after a 
little skirmish ,  the Protector made such moderate proposals ,  
in offering to retire if the Scotch would only engage not to 
marry their princess to any foreign prince ,  that the Regent 
thought the English were afraid .  But in this he made 
a horrible mistake  ;  for the English soldiers on land ,  and 
the English sailors on the water ,  so set upon the Scotch ,  
that they broke and fled ,  and more than ten thousand of 
them were killed .  It was a dreadful battle ,  for the fugitives 
were slain without mercy .  The ground for four miles ,  all 
the way to Edinburgh ,  was strewn with dead men ,  and 
with arms ,  and legs ,  and heads .  Some hid themselves in 
streams and were drowned  ;  some threw away their armour 
and were killed running ,  almost naked  ;  but in this battle 
of Pinkey the English lost only two or three hundred men .  
They were much better clothed than the Scotch  ;  at the 
poverty of whose appearance and country they were exceed -  
ingly astonished .  

A Parliament was called when Somerset came back ,  and 
it repealed the whip with six strings ,  and did one or two 
other good things  ;  though it unhappily retained the punish -  
ment of burning for those people who did not make believe 
to believe ,  in all religious matters ,  what the Government 
had declared that they must and should believe .  It also 
made a foolish law  ( meant to put down beggars )  ,  that any 
man who lived idly and loitered about for three days 
together ,  should be burned with a hot iron ,  made a slave ,  
and wear an iron fetter .  But this savage absurdity soon 



EDWARD THE SIXTH 283 

came to an end ,  and went the way of a great many other 
foolish laws .  

The Protector was now so proud that he sat in Parlia -  
ment before all the nobles ,  on the right hand of the throne .  
Many other noblemen ,  who only wanted to be as proud if 
they could get a chance ,  became his enemies of course  ;  and 
it is supposed that he came back suddenly from Scotland 
because he had received news that his brother ,  Lord Sey -  
mour ,  was becoming dangerous to him .  This lord was 
now High Admiral of England  ;  a very handsome man ,  
and a great favourite with the Court ladies — even with the 
young Princess Elizabeth ,  who romped with him a little 
more than young princesses in these times do with any one .  
He had married Catherine Parr ,  the late Kings widow ,  who 
was now dead  ;  and ,  to strengthen his power ,  he secretly 
supplied the young King with money .  He may even have 
engaged with some of his brothers enemies in a plot to 
carry the boy off .  On these and other accusations ,  at any 
rate ,  he was confined in the Tower ,  impeached ,  and found 
guilty ;  his own brothers name being — unnatural and sad 
to tell — the first signed to the warrant for his execution .  
He was executed on Tower Hill ,  and died denying his 
treason .  One of his last proceedings in this world was to 
write two letters ,  one to the Princess Elizabeth ,  and one to 
the Princess Mary ,  which a servant of his took charge of ,  
and concealed in his shoe .  These letters are supposed to 
have urged them against his brother ,  and to revenge his 
death .  What they truly contained is not known  ;  but 
there is no doubt that he had ,  at one time ,  obtained great 
influence over the Princess Elizabeth .  

All this while ,  the Protestant religion was making pro -  
gress .  The images which the people had gradually come 
to worship ,  were removed from the churches  ;  the people 
were informed that they need not confess themselves to 
priests unless they chose  ;  a common prayer - book was 
drawn up in the English language ,  which all could under -  
stand  ;  and many other improvements were made  ;  still 
moderately .  For Cranmer was a very moderate man ,  and 
even restrained the Protestant clergy from violently abusing 
the unreformed religion — as they veiy often did ,  and which 
was not a good example .  But the people were at this time 
in great distress .  The rapacious nobility who had come 
into possession of the Church lands ,  were very bad land -  



284 A CHILDS HISTORY OF ENGLAND 

lords .  They enclosed great quantities of ground for the 
feeding of sheep ,  which was then more profitable than the 
growing of crops  ;  and this increased the general distress .  
So the people ,  who still understood little of what was going 
on about them ,  and still readily believed what the homeless 
monks told them — many of whom had been their good 
friends in their better days — took it into their heads that 
all this was owing to the reformed religion ,  and therefore 
rose in many parts of the country .  

The most powerful risings were in Devonshire and 
Norfolk .  In Devonshire ,  the rebellion was so strong that 
ten thousand men united within a few days ,  and even laid 
siege to Exeter .  But Lord Eussell ,  coming to the assis -  
tance of the citizens who defended that town ,  defeated the 
rebels  ;  and ,  not only hanged the Mayor of one place ,  but 
hanged the vicar of another from his own church steeple .  
What with hanging and killing by the sword ,  four thou -  
sand of the rebels are supposed to have fallen in that one 
county .  In Norfolk  ( where the rising was more against the 
enclosure of open lands than against the reformed religion )  ,  
the popular leader was a man named Robert Ket ,  a tanner 
of Wymondham .  The mob were ,  in the first instance ,  
excited against the tanner by one John Flow t erdew ,  a 
gentleman who owed him a grudge: but the tanner was 
more than a match for the gentleman ,  since he soon got 
the people on his side ,  and established himself near Norwich 
with quite an army .  There was a large oak - tree in that 
place ,  on a spot called Moushold Hill ,  which Ket named 
the Tree of Keformation  ;  and under its green boughs ,  he 
and his men sat ,  in the midsummer weather ,  holding courts 
of justice ,  and debating affaire of state .  They were even 
impartial enough to allow some rather tiresome public 
speakers to get up into this Tree of Keformation .  and point 
out their errors to them ,  in long discourses ,  while they lay 
listening  ( not always without some grumbling and growl -  
ing )  in the shade below .  At last ,  one sunny July day ,  
a herald appeared below the tree ,  and proclaimed Ket and 
all his men traitors ,  unless from that moment they dis -  
persed and went home : in which case they were to receive 
a pardon .  But ,  Ket and his men made light of the herald 
and became stronger than ever ,  until the Earl of Warwick 
went after them with a sufficient force ,  and cut them all to 
pieces .  A few were hanged ,  drawn ,  and quartered ,  as 



EDWARD THE SIXTH 285 

traitors ,  and their limbs were sent into various country 
places to be a terror to the people .  Nine of them were 
hanged upon nine green branches of the Oak of Reforma -  
tion  ;  and so ,  for the time ,  that tree may be said to have 
withered away .  

The Protector ,  though a haughty man ,  had compassion for 
the real distresses of the common people ,  and a sincere 
desire to help them .  But he was too proud and too high 
in degree to hold even their favour steadily  ;  and many of 
the nobles always envied and hated him ,  because they were 
as proud and not as high as he .  He was at this time build -  
ing a great Palace in the Strand : to get the stone for which 
he blew up church steeples with gunpowder ,  and pulled 
down bishops houses : thus making himself still more dis -  
liked .  At length ,  his principal enemy ,  the Earl of War -  
wick — Dudley by name ,  and the son of that Dudley who 
had made himself so odious with Empson ,  in the reign of 
Henry the Seventh — joined with seven other members of 
the Council against him ,  formed a separate Council  ;  and ,  
becoming stronger in a few days ,  sent him to the Tower 
under twenty - nine articles of accusation .  After being sen -  
tenced by the Council to the forfeiture of all his offices and 
lands ,  he was liberated and pardoned ,  on making a very 
humble submission .  He was even taken back into the 
Council again ,  after having suffered this fall ,  and married 
his daughter ,  Lady Anne Seymour ,  to Warwicks eldest 
son .  But such a reconciliation was little likely to last ,  and 
did not outlive a year .  Warwick ,  having got himself made 
Duke of Northumberland ,  and having advanced the more 
important of his friends ,  then finished the history by 
causing the Duke of Somerset and his friend Lord Grey ,  
and others ,  to be arrested for treason ,  in having conspired 
to seize and dethrone the King .  They were also accused of 
having intended to seize the new Duke of Northumberland ,  
with his friends Lord Northampton and Lord Pembroke  ;  
to murder them if they found need  ;  and to raise the City 
to revolt .  All this the fallen Protector positively denied : 
except that he confessed to having spoken of the murder of 
those three noblemen ,  but having never designed it .  He 
was acquitted of the charge of treason ,  and found guilty of 
the other charges  ;  so when the people — who remembered his 
having been their friend ,  now that he was disgraced and in 
danger ,  saw him come out from his trial with the axe 



286 A CHILDS HISTORY OF ENGLAND 

turned from him — they thought he was altogether acquitted ,  
and set up a loud shout of joy .  

But the Duke of Somerset was ordeied to he beheaded 
on Tower Hill ,  at eight oclock in the morning ,  and pro -  
clamations were issued bidding the citizens keep at home 
until after ten .  They filled the streets ,  however ,  and 
crowded the place of execution as soon as it was light  ;  
and ,  with sad faces and sad hearts ,  saw the once powerful 
Protector ascend the scaffold to lay his head upon the 
dreadful block .  While he was yet saying his last words 
to them with manly courage ,  and telling them ,  in par -  
ticular ,  how it comforted him ,  at that pass ,  to have assisted 
in reforming the national religion ,  a member of the Council 
was seen riding up on horseback .  They again thought 
that the Duke was saved by his bringing a reprieve ,  and 
again shouted for joy .  But the Duke himself told them 
they were mistaken ,  and laid down his head and had it 
struck off at a blow .  

Many of the bystanders rushed forward and steeped their 
handkerchiefs in his blood ,  as a mark of their affection .  He 
had ,  indeed ,  been capable of many good acts ,  and one of 
them was discovered after he was no more .  The Bishop 
of Durham ,  a very good man ,  had been informed against 
to the Council ,  when the Duke was in power ,  as having 
answered a treacherous letter proposing a rebellion against 
the reformed religion .  As the answer could not be found ,  
he could not be declared guilty  ;  but it was now discovered ,  
hidden by the Duke himself among some private papers ,  in 
his regard for that good man .  The Bishop lost his office ,  
and was deprived of his possessions .  

It is not very pleasant to know that while his uncle lay 
in prison under sentence of death ,  the young King was 
being vastly entertained by plays ,  and dances ,  and sham 
fights : but there is no doubt of it ,  for he kept a journal 
himself .  It is pleasanter to know that not a single Koman 
Catholic was burnt in this reign for holding that religion  ;  
though two wretched victims suffered for heresy .  One ,  
a woman named Joan Bocher ,  for professing some opinions 
that even she could only explain in unintelligible jargon .  
The other ,  a Dutchman ,  named Von Paris ,  who practised 
as a surgeon in London .  Edward was ,  to his credit ,  ex -  
ceedingly unwilling to sign the warrant for the womans 
execution : shedding tears before he did so ,  and telling 



EDWARD THE SIXTH 287 

Cranmer ,  who urged him to do it  ( though Cranmer really 
would have spared the woman at first ,  but for her own 
determined obstinacy )  ,  that the guilt was not his ,  but that 
of the man who so strongly urged the dreadful act .  We 
shall see ,  too soon ,  whether the time ever came when 
Cranmer is likely to have remembered this with sorrow 
and remorse .  

Cranmer and Ridley  ( at first Bishop of Rochester ,  and 
afterwards Bishop of London )  were the most powerful of 
the clergy of this reign .  Others were imprisoned and de -  
prived of their property for still adhering to the unreformed 
religion  ;  the most important among whom were Gardiner 
Bishop of Winchester ,  Heath Bishop of Worcester ,  Day 
Bishop of Chichester ,  and Bonner that Bishop of London 
who was superseded by Ridley .  The Princess Mary ,  who 
inherited her mothers gloomy temper ,  and hated the re -  
formed religion as connected with her mothers wrongs and 
sorrows — she knew nothing else about it ,  always refusing 
to read a single book in which it was truly described — held 
by the unreformed religion too ,  and was the only person in 
the kingdom for whom the old Mass was allowed to be per -  
formed  ;  nor would the young King have made that exception 
even in her favour ,  but for the strong persuasions of Cranmer 
and Ridley .  He always viewed it with horror  ;  and when 
he fell into a sickly condition ,  after having been very ill ,  
first of the measles and then of the small - pox ,  he was 
greatly troubled in mind to think that if he died ,  and she ,  
the next heir to the throne ,  succeeded ,  the Roman Catholic 
religion would be set up again .  

This uneasiness ,  the Duke of Northumberland was not 
slow to encourage : for ,  if the Princess Mary came to the 
throne ,  he ,  who had taken part with the Protestants ,  was 
sure to be disgraced .  Now ,  the Duchess of Suffolk was 
descended from King Henry the Seventh  ;  and ,  if she re -  
signed what little or no right she had ,  in favour of her 
daughter Lady Jane Grey ,  that would be the succession 
to promote the Dukes greatness  ;  because Lord Guilford 
Dudley ,  one of his sons ,  was ,  at this very time ,  newly 
married to her .  So ,  he worked upon the Kings fears ,  and 
persuaded him to set aside both the Princess Mary and the 
Princess Elizabeth ,  and assert his right to appoint his suc -  
cessor .  Accordingly the young King handed to the Crown 
lawyers a writing signed half a dozen times over by him -  



288 A CHILDS HISTORY OF ENGLAND 

self appointing Lady Jane Grey to succeed to the Crown ,  
and requiring them to have his will made out according 
to law .  They were much against it at first ,  and told the 
King so  ;  but the Duke of Northumberland — being so 
violent about it that the lawyers even expected him to 
beat them ,  and hotly declaring that ,  stripped to his shirt ,  
he would fight any man in such a quarrel — they yielded .  
Cranmer ,  also ,  at first hesitated  ;  pleading that he had 
sworn to maintain the succession of the Crown to the 
Princess Mary  ;  but ,  he was a weak man in his resolutions ,  
and afterwards signed the document with the rest of the 
council .  

It was completed none too soon  ;  for Edward was now 
sinking in a rapid decline  ;  and ,  by way of making him 
better ,  they handed him over to a woman - doctor who pre -  
tended to be able to cure it .  He speedily got worse .  On 
the sixth of July ,  in the year one thousand five hundred and 
fifty - three ,  he died ,  very peaceably and piously ,  praying God ,  
with his last breath ,  to protect the reformed religion .  

This King died in the sixteenth year of his age ,  and in 
the seventh of his reign .  It is difficult to judge what the 
character of one so young might afterwards have become 
among so many bad ,  ambitious ,  quarrelling nobles .  But ,  he 
was an amiable boy ,  of very good abilities ,  and had nothing 
coarse or cruel or brutal in his disposition — which in the son 
of such a father is rather surprising .  



CHAPTER XXX 

ENGLAND UNDER MARY 

The Duke of Northumberland was very anxious to keep the 
young Kings death a secret ,  in order that he might get the 
two Princesses into his power .  But ,  the Princess Mary ,  
being informed of that event as she was on her way to 
London to see her sick brother ,  turned her horses head ,  
and rode away into Norfolk .  The Earl of Arundel was her 
friend ,  and it was he who sent her warning of what had 
happened .  

As the secret could not be kept ,  the Duke of Northumber -  
land and the council sent for the Lord Mayor of London and 
some of the aldermen ,  and made a merit of telling it to them .  
Then ,  they made it known to the people ,  and set off to 
inform Lady Jane Grey that she was to be Queen .  

She was a pretty girl of only sixteen ,  and was amiable ,  
learned ,  and clever .  When the lords who came to her ,  fell 
on their knees before her ,  and told her what tidings they 
brought ,  she was so astonished that she fainted .  On recover -  
ing ,  she expressed her sorrow for the young Kings death ,  
and said that she knew she was unfit to govern the kingdom  ;  
but that if she must be Queen ,  she prayed God to direct her .  
She was then at Sion House ,  near Brentford  ;  and the lords 
took her clown the river in state to the Tower ,  that she might 
remain there  ( as the custom was )  until she was crowned .  
But the people were not at all favourable to Lady Jane ,  con -  
sidering that the right to be Queen was Marys ,  and greatly 
disliking the Duke of Northumberland .  They were not put 
into a better humour by the Dukes causing a vintners 
servant ,  one Gabriel Pot ,  to be taken up for expressing his 
dissatisfaction among the crowd ,  and to have his ears nailed 
to the pillory ,  and cut off .  Some powerful men among the 
nobility declared on Marys side .  They raised troops to 
support her cause ,  had her proclaimed Queen at Norwich ,  
and gathered around her at the castle of Framlingham ,  



8* 

z 



290 A CHILDS HISTORY OF ENGLAND 

which belonged to the Duke of Norfolk .  For ,  she was not 
considered so safe as yet ,  but that it was best to keep her in 
a castle on the sea - coast ,  from whence she might be sent 
abroad ,  if necessary .  

The Council would have despatched Lady Janes father ,  
the Duke of Suffolk ,  as the general of the army against this 
force  ;  but ,  as Lady Jane implored that her father might 
remain with her .  and as he was known to be but a weak 
man ,  they told the Duke of Northumberland that he must 
take the command himself .  He was not very ready to do so ,  
as he mistrusted the Council much  ;  but there was no help 
for it ,  and he set forth with a heavy heart ,  observing to 
a lord who rode beside him through Shorediteh at the head 
of the troops ,  that ,  although the people pressed in great 
numbers to look at them ,  they were terribly silent .  

And his fears for himself turned out to be well founded .  
While he was waiting at Cambridge for further help from 
the Council ,  the Council took it into their heads to turn 
their backs on Lady Janes cause ,  and to take up the Princess 
Marys .  This was chiefly owing to the before - mentioned 
Earl of Arundel ,  who represented to the Lord Mayor and 
aldermen ,  in a second interview with those sagacious persons ,  
that ,  as for himself ,  he did not perceive the Eeformed religion 
to be in much danger — which Lord Pembroke backed by 
flourishing his sword as another kind of persuasion .  The 
Lord Mayor and aldermen ,  thus enlightened ,  said there 
could be no doubt that the Princess Mary ought to be Queen .  
So .  she was proclaimed at the Cross by St .  Pauls ,  and 
barrels of wine were given to the people ,  and they got very 
drunk ,  and danced round blazing bonfires — little thinking ,  
poor wretches ,  what other bonfires would soon be blazing 
in Queen Marys name .  

After a ten days dream of royalty .  Lady Jane Grey 
resigned the Crown with great willingness ,  saying that she 
had only accepted it in obedience to her father and mother  ;  
and went gladly back to her pleasant house by the river ,  and 
her books .  Mary then came on towards London : and at 
Wanstead in Essex ,  was joined by her half - sister ,  the Princess 
Elizabeth .  Tliey passed through the streets of London to 
the Tower ,  ami there the new Queen met some eminent 
prisoners thou confined in it .  kissed them ,  and gave them 
their liberty .  Among these was that Gardiner .  Bisbop of 
Winchester ,  who had been imprisoned in the last reign for 



MARY 29T 

holding to the unreformed religion .  Him she soon made 
chancellor .  

The Duke of Northumberland had been taken prisoner ,  
and ,  together with his son and five others ,  was quickly -  
brought before the Council .  He ,  not unnaturally ,  asked that 
Council ,  in his defence ,  whether it was treason to obey orders 
that had been issued under the great seal  ;  and ,  if it were ,  
whether they ,  who had obeyed them too ,  ought to be his 
judges ? But they made light of these points  ;  and ,  being -  
resolved to have him out of the way ,  soon sentenced him 
to death .  He had risen into power upon the death of another 
man .  and made but a poor show  ( as might be expected )  when 
he himself lay low .  He entreated Gardiner to let him live ,  
if it were only in a mouses hole  ;  and .  when he ascended 
the scaffold to be beheaded on Tower Hill ,  addressed the 
people in a miserable way ,  saying that he had been incited 
by others ,  and exhorting them to return to the unreformed 
religion ,  which he told them was his faith .  There seems 
reason to suppose that he expected a pardon even then ,  
in return for this confession  ;  but it matters little whether 
he did or not .  His head was struck off .  

Mary was now crowned Queen .  She was thirty - seven 
years of age ,  short and thin ,  wrinkled in the face ,  and very 
unhealthy .  But she had a great liking for show and for 
bright ;  colours ,  and all the ladies of her Court were magnifi -  
cently dressed .  She had a great liking too for old customs ,  
without much sense in them  ;  and she was oiled in the 
oldest way ,  and blessed in the oldest way ,  and done all 
manner of things to in the oldest way ,  at her coronation .  
I hope they did her good .  

She soon began to show her desire to put down the 
Reformed religion ,  and put up the unreformed one : though 
it was dangerous work as yet ,  the people being something 
wiser than they used to be .  They even cast a shower of 
stones— and among them a dagger — at one of the royal 
chaplains who attacked the Reformed religion in a public -  
sermon .  But the Queen and her priests went steadily on .  
Ridley ,  the powerful bishop of the last reign ,  was seized and 
sent to the Tower .  Latimer ,  also celebrated among the 
Clergy of the last reign ,  was likewise sent to the Tower ,  and 
Cranmer speedily followed .  Latimer was an aged man ■ 
and .  as his guards took him through Smithheld ,  he looked 
round it ,  and said ,   " This is a place that hath long groaned 



292 A CHILDS HISTORY OF ENGLAND 

for me .  "  For he knew well ,  what kind of bonfires would 
soon be burning .  Nor was the knowledge confined to him .  
The prisons were fast filled with the chief Protestants ,  who 
were there left rotting in darkness ,  hunger ,  dirt ,  and separation 
from their friends  ;  many ,  who had time left them for escape ,  
fled from the kingdom  ;  and the dullest of the people began ,  
now ,  to see what was coming .  

It came on fast .  A Parliament was got together  ;  not 
without strong suspicion of unfairness  ;  and they annulled 
the divorce ,  formerly pronounced by Cranmer between the 
Queens mother and King Henry the Eighth ,  and unmade 
all the laws on the subject of religion that had been made in 
the last King Edwards reign .  They began their proceedings ,  
in violation of the law ,  by having the old mass said before 
them in Latin ,  and by turning out a bishop who would not 
kneel down .  They also declared guilty of treason ,  Lady 
Jane Grey for aspiring to the Crown  ;  her husband ,  for being 
her husband  ;  and Cranmer ,  for not believing in the mass 
aforesaid .  They then prayed the Queen graciously to choose 
a husband for herself ,  as soon as might be .  

Now ,  the question who should be the Queens husband 
had given rise to a great deal of discussion ,  and to several 
contending parties .  Some said Cardinal Pole was the man — ■ 
but the Queen was of opinion that he was not the man ,  he 
being too old and too much of a student .  Others said that 
the gallant young Courtenay ,  whom the Queen had made 
Earl of Devonshire ,  was the man — and the Queen thought 
so too ,  for a while  ;  but she changed her mind .  At last it 
appeared that Philip ,  Prince of Spain ,  was certainly the 
man — though certainly not the peoples man  ;  for they 
detested the idea of such a marriage from the beginning 
to the end ,  and murmured that the Spaniard would establish 
in England ,  by the aid of foreign soldiers ,  the worst abuses 
of the Popish religion ,  and even the terrible Inquisition 
itself .  

These discontents gave rise to a conspiracy for marrying 
young Courtenay to the Princess Elizabeth ,  and setting 
them up ,  with popular tumults all over the kingdom ,  
against the Queen .  This was discovered in time by Gardiner ;  
but in Kent ,  the old bold county ,  the people rose in then* 
old bold way .  Sir Thomas Wyat ,  a man of great daring ,  
was their leader .  He raised his standard at Maidstone ,  
marched on to Rochester ,  established himself in the old 



MARY 293 

castle there ,  and prepared to hold out against the Duke of 
Norfolk ,  who came against him with a party of the Queens 
guards ,  and a body of five hundred London men .  The 
London men ,  however ,  were all for Elizabeth ,  and not at 
all for Mary .  They declared ,  under the castle walls ,  for 
Wyat  ;  the Duke retreated  ;  and Wyat came on to Deptford ,  
at the head of fifteen thousand men .  

But these ,  in their turn ,  fell away .  When he came to 
Southwark ,  there were only two thousand left .  Not dis -  
mayed by finding the London citizens in arms ,  and the guns 
at the Tower ready to oppose his crossing the river there ,  
Wyat led them off to Kingston - upon - Thames ,  intending 
to cross the bridge that he knew to be in that place ,  and 
so to work his way round to Ludgate ,  one of the old gates 
of the City .  He found the bridge broken down ,  but mended 
it ,  came across ,  and bravely fought his way up Fleet Street 
to Ludgate Hill .  Finding the gate closed against him ,  he 
fought his way back again ,  sword in hand ,  to Temple Bar .  
Here ,  being overpowered ,  he surrendered himself ,  and three 
or four hundred of his men were taken ,  besides a hundred 
killed .  Wyat ,  in a moment of weakness  ( and perhaps of 
torture )  was afterwards made to accuse the Princess Elizabeth 
as his accomplice to some very small extent .  But his man -  
hood soon returned to him ,  and he refused to save his life 
by making any more false confessions .  He was quartered 
and distributed in the usual brutal way ,  and from fifty to 
a hundred of his followers were hanged .  The rest were led 
out ,  with halters round their necks ,  to be pardoned ,  and 
to make a parade of crying out ,   "  God save Queen Mary  !   "  

In the danger of this rebellion ,  the Queen showed herself 
to be a woman of courage and spirit .  She disdained to 
retreat to any place of safety ,  and went down to the Guildhall ,  
sceptre in hand ,  and made a gallant speech to the Lord 
Mayor and citizens .  But on the day after Wyats defeat ,  
she did the most cruel act ,  even of her cruel reign ,  in signing 
the warrant for the execution of Lady Jane Grey .  

They tried to persuade Lady Jane to accept the unreformed 
religion  ;  but she steadily refused .  On the morning when 
she was to die ,  she saw from her window the bleeding and 
headless body of her husband brought back in a cart from 
the scaffold on Tower Hill where he had laid down his life .  
But ,  as she had declined to see him before his execution ,  
lest she should be overpowered and not make a good end ,  



294 A CHILD S HISTORY OF ENGLAND 

so ,  she even now showed a constancy and calmness that will 
never be forgotten .  She came up to the scaffold with a firm 
step and a quiet face ,  and addressed the bystanders in a 
steady voice .  They were not numerous  ;  for she was too 
young ,  too innocent and fair ,  to be murdered before the 
people on Tower Hill ,  as her husband had just been  ;  so ,  
the place of her execution was within the Tower itself .  
She said that she had done an unlawful act in taking 
what was Queen Marys right  ;  but that she had done so 
with no bad intent ,  and that she died a humble Christian .  
She begged the executioner to despatch her quickly ,  and she 
asked him ,  Will you take my head off before I lay me 
down? "  He answered ,   " No ,  Madam ,  "  and then she was 
very quiet while they bandaged her eyes .  Being blinded ,  
and unable to see the block on which she was to lay her 
young head ,  she was seen to feel about for it with her hands ,  
and was heard to say ,  confused ,   "  what shall I do  !  Where 
is it ?  "  Then they guided her to the right place ,  and the 
executioner struck off her head .  You know too well .  now .  
what dreadful deeds the executioner did in England ,  through 
many many years ,  and how his axe descended on the hateful 
block through the necks of some of the bravest ,  wisest ,  and 
best in the land .  But it never struck so cruel and so vile 
a blow as this .  

The father of Lady Jane soon followed ,  but was little 
pitied .  Queen Marys next object was to lay hold of 
Elizabeth ,  and this was pursued with great eagerness .  Five 
hundred men were sent to her retired house at Ashridge ,  
by Berkhampstead ,  with orders to bring her up .  alive or dead .  
They got there at ten at night ,  when she was sick in bed .  
But .  their leaders followed her lady into her bedchamber ,  
whence she was brought out betimes next morning ,  and put 
into a litter to be conveyed to London .  She was so weak 
and ill ,  that she was five days on the road  ;  still ,  she was 
so resolved to be seen by the people that she had the curtains 
of the litter opened : and so ,  very pale and sickly ,  passed 
through the streets .  She wrote to her sister ,  saying she was 
innocent of any crime ,  and asking why she was made 
a prisoner  ;  but she got no answer ,  and was ordered to the 
Tower .  They took her in by the Traitors Gate ,  to which 
she objected ,  but in vain .  One of the lords who conveyed 
her offered to cover her with his cloak ,  as it was raining .  
but she put it away from her ,  proudly and scornfully ,  and 



MARY 295 

passed into the Tower ,  and sat down in a court - yard on 
a stone .  They besought her to come in out of the wet  ;  
but she answered that it was better sitting there ,  than in 
a worse place .  At length she went to her apartment ,  where 
she was kept a prisoner ,  though not so close a prisoner as at 
Woodstock ,  whither she was afterwards removed ,  and where 
she is said to have one day envied a milkmaid whom she 
heard singing in the sunshine as she went through the green 
fields .  Gardiner ,  than whom there were not many worse 
men among the fierce and sullen priests ,  cared little to keep 
secret his stern desire for her death : being used to say that 
it was of little service to shake off the leaves ,  and lop the 
branches of the tree of heresy ,  if its root ,  the hope of heretics ,  
were left .  He failed ,  however ,  in his benevolent design .  
Elizabeth was ,  at length ,  released  ;  and Hatfield House was 
assigned to her as a residence ,  under the care of one Sir 
Thomas Pope .  

It would seem that Philip ,  the Prince of Spain ,  was 
a main cause of this change in Elizabeths fortunes .  He 
was not an amiable man ,  being ,  on the contrary ,  proud ,  over -  
bearing ,  and gloomy  ;  but he and the Spanish lords who 
came over with him ,  assuredly did discountenance the idea 
of doing any violence to the Princess .  It may have been 
mere prudence ,  but we will hope it was manhood and 
honour .  The Queen had been expecting her husband with 
great impatience ,  and at length he came ,  to her great joy ,  
though he never cared much for her .  They were married 
by Gardiner ,  at Winchester ,  and there was more holiday -  
making among the people  ;  but they had their old distrust 
of this Spanish marriage ,  in which even the Parliament 
shared .  Though the members of that Parliament were far 
from honest ,  and were strongly suspected to have been 
bought with Spanish money ,  they would pass no bill to 
enable the Queen to set aside the Princess Elizabeth and 
appoint her own successor .  

Although Gardiner failed in this object ,  as well as in the 
darker one of bringing the Princess to the scaffold ,  he went 
on at a great pace in the revival of the unreformed religion .  
A new Parliament was packed ,  in which there were no 
Protestants .  Preparations were made to receive Cardinal 
Pole in England as the Popes messenger ,  bringing his holy 
declaration that all the nobility who had acquired Church 
property ,  should keep it — which was done to enlist their 



296 A CHILDS HISTORY OF ENGLAND 

selfish interest on the Popes side .  Then a great scene 
was enacted ,  which was the triumph of the Queens plans .  
Cardinal Pole arrived in great splendour and dignity ,  and 
was received with great pomp .  The Parliament joined in 
a petition expressive of their sorrow at the change in the 
national religion ,  and praying him to receive the country 
again into the Popish Church .  With the Queen sitting 
on her throne ,  and the King on one side of her ,  and the 
Cardinal on the other ,  and the Parliament present ,  Gardiner 
read the petition aloud .  The Cardinal then made a great 
speech ,  and was so obliging as to say that all was forgotten 
and forgiven ,  and that the kingdom was solemnly made 
Roman Catholic again .  

Everything was now ready for the lighting of the terrible 
bonfires .  The Queen having declared to the Council ,  in 
writing ,  that she would wish none of her subjects to be 
burnt without some of the Council being present ,  and that 
she would particularly wish there to be good sermons at all 
burnings ,  the Council knew pretty well what was to be done 
next .  So ,  after the Cardinal had blessed all the bishops as 
a preface to the burnings ,  the Chancellor Gardiner opened a 
High Court at Saint Mary Oveiy ,  on the Southwark side of 
London Bridge ,  for the trial of heretics .  Here ,  two of the 
late Protestant clergymen ,  Hooper ,  Bishop of Gloucester ,  
and Rogers ,  a Prebendary of St .  Pauls ,  were brought to be 
tried .  Hooper was tried first for being married ,  though 
a priest ,  and for not believing in the mass .  He admitted 
both of these accusations ,  and said that the mass was 
a wicked imposition .  Then they tried Rogers ,  who said 
the same .  Next morning the two were brought up to be 
sentenced  ;  and then Rogers said that his poor wife ,  being 
a German woman and a stranger in the land ,  he hoped 
might be allowed to come to speak to him before he died .  
To this the inhuman Gardiner replied ,  that she was not his 
wife .   " Yea ,  but she is ,  my lord ,  "  said Rogers ,   " and she 
hath been my wife these eighteen years .  "  His request was 
still refused ,  and they were  " both sent to Newgate  ;  all those 
who stood in the streets to sell things ,  being ordered to put 
out their lights that the people might not see them .  But ,  
the people stood at their doors with candles in their hands ,  
and prayed for them as they went by .  Soon afterwards ,  
Rogers was taken out of jail to lie burnt in Smithfield  ;  
and ,  in the crowd as he went along ,  he saw his poor wife 



MAKY 297 

and his ten children ,  of whom the youngest was a little 
baby .  And so he was burnt to death .  

The next day ,  Hooper ,  who was to be burnt at Gloucester ,  
was brought out to take his last journey ,  and was made to 
wear a hood over his face that he might not be known by 
the people .  But ,  they did know him for all that ,  down in 
his own part of the country  ;  and ,  when he came near 
Gloucester ,  they lined the road ,  making prayers and lamenta -  
tions .  His guards took him to a lodging ,  where he slept 
soundly all night .  At nine oclock next morning ,  he was 
brought forth leaning on a staff  ;  for he had taken cold in 
prison ,  and was infirm .  The iron stake ,  and the iron chain 
which was to bind him to it ,  were fixed up near a great 
elm - tree in a pleasant open place before the cathedral ,  
where ,  on peaceful Sundays ,  he had been accustomed to 
preach and to pray ,  when he was bishop of Gloucester .  
This tree ,  which had no leaves then ,  it being February ,  was 
filled with people ;  and the priests of Gloucester College 
were looking complacently on from a window ,  and there 
was a great concourse of spectators in every spot from which 
a glimpse of the dreadful sight could be beheld .  When the 
old man kneeled down on the small platform at the foot 
of the stake ,  and prayed aloud ,  the nearest people were 
observed to be so attentive to his prayers that they were 
ordered to stand farther back  ;  for it did not suit the 
Romish Church to have those Protestant words heard .  His 
prayers concluded ,  he went up to the stake and was stripped 
to his shirt ,  and chained ready for the fire .  One of his 
guards had such compassion on him that ,  to shorten his 
agonies ,  he tied some packets of gunpowder about him .  
Then they heaped up wood and straw and reeds ,  and set 
them all alight .  But ,  unhappily ,  the wood was green and 
damp ,  and there was a wind blowing that blew what flame 
there was ,  away .  Thus ,  through three - quarters of an hour ,  
the good old man was scorched and roasted and smoked ,  
as the fire rose and sank  ;  and all that time they saw 
him ,  as he burned ,  moving his lips in prayer ,  and beating 
his breast with one hand ,  even after the other was burnt 
away and had fallen off .  

Cranmer ,  Kidley ,  and Latimer ,  were taken to Oxford to 

dispute with a commission of priests and doctors about the 

mass .  They were shamefully treated  ;  and it is recorded 

that the Oxford scholars hissed and howled and groaned ,  

1 .  z 3 



298 A CHILDS HISTORY OF ENGLAND 

and misconducted themselves in an anything but a scholarly 
way .  The prisoners were taken back to jail ,  and afterwards 
tried in St .  Marys Church .  They were all found guilty .  On 
the sixteenth of the month of October ,  Ridley and Latimer 
were brought out ,  to make another of the dreadful bonfires .  

The scene of the suffering of these two good Protestant 
men was in the City ditch ,  near Baliol College .  On coming 
to the dreadful spot ,  they kissed the stakes ,  and then em -  
braced each other .  And then a learned doctor got up into 
a pulpit which was placed there ,  and preached a sermon 
from the text ,   " Though I give my body to be burned ,  and 
have not charity ,  it profiteth me nothing .  "  When you 
think of the charity of burning men alive ,  you may imagine 
that this learned doctor had a rather brazen face .  Eidley 
would have answered his sermon when it came to an end ,  
but was not allowed .  When Latimer was stripped ,  it 
appeared that he had dressed himself under his other 
clothes ,  in a new shroud  ;  and ,  as he stood in it before all 
the people ,  it was noted of him ,  and long remembered ,  that ,  
whereas he had been stooping and feeble but a few minutes 
before ,  he now stood upright and handsome ,  in the know -  
ledge that he was dying for a just and a great cause .  
Ridleys brother - in - law was there with bags of gunpowder  ;  
and when they were both chained up ,  he tied them round 
their bodies .  Then ,  a light was thrown upon the pile to 
fire it .   "  Be of good comfort ,  Master Ridley ,  "  said Latimer ,  
at that awful moment ,   " and play the man  !  We shall this 
day light such a candle ,  by Gods grace ,  in England ,  as 
I trust shall never be put out .  "  And then he was seen to 
make motions with his hands as if he were washing them 
in the flames ,  and to stroke his aged face with them ,  and 
was heard to cry ,   "  Father of Heaven ,  receive my soul  !   "  
He died cpiickly ,  but the fire ,  after having burned the legs 
of Ridley ,  sunk .  There he lingered ,  chained to the iron 
post ,  and crying ,   " O  !  I cannot burn  !   !  for Christs sake 
let the fire come unto me  !   "  And still ,  when his brother -  
in - law had heaped on more wood ,  he was heard through the 
blinding smoke ,  still dismally crying ,   " 0 !  I cannot burn ,  
I cannot burn  !  ■ At last ,  the gunpowder caught fire ,  and 
ended his miseries .  

Five days after this fearful scene ,  Gardiner went to his 
tremendous account before God ,  for the cruelties he had so 
much assisted in committing .  



MARY 299 

Cranmer remained still alive and in prison .  He was 
brought out again in February ,  for more examining and 
trying ,  by Bonner ,  Bishop of London : another man of 
blood ,  who had succeeded to Gardiners work ,  even in his 
lifetime ,  when Gardiner was tired of it .  Cranmer was now 
degraded as a priest ,  and left for death  ;  but ,  if the Queen 
hated any one on earth ,  she hated him ,  and it was resolved 
that he should be ruined and disgraced to the utmost .  There 
is no doubt that the Queen and her husband personally urged 
on these deeds ,  because they wrote to the Council ,  urging 
them to be active in the kindling of the fearful fires .  As 
Cranmer was known not to be a firm man ,  a plan was laid 
for surrounding him with artful people ,  and inducing him 
to recant to the unreformed religion .  Deans and friars 
visited him ,  played at bowls with him ,  showed him various 
attentions ,  talked persuasively with him ,  gave him money 
for his prison comforts ,  and induced him to sign ,  I fear ,  as 
many as six recantations .  But when ,  after all ,  he was taken 
out to be burnt ,  he was nobly true to his better self ,  and 
made a glorious end .  

After prayers and a sermon ,  Dr .  Cole ,  the preacher of the 
day  ( who had been one of the artful priests about Cranmer 
in prison )  ,  required him to make a public confession of his 
faith before the people .  This ,  Cole did ,  expecting that he 
would declare himself a Roman Catholic .   " I ivill make 
a profession of my faith ,  "  said Cranmer ,   " and with a good 
will too .  "  

Then ,  he arose before them all ,  and took from the sleeve 
of his robe a written prayer and read it aloud .  That done ,  
he kneeled and said the Lords Prayer ,  all the people join -  
ing  ;  and then he arose again and told them that he believed 
in the Bible ,  and that in what he had lately written ,  he had 
written what was not the truth ,  and that ,  because his right 
hand had signed those papers ,  he would burn his right hand 
first when he came to the fire .  As for the Pope ,  he did 
refuse him and denounce him as the enemy of Heaven .  
Hereupon the pious Dr .  Cole cried out to the guards to stop 
that heretics mouth and take him away .  

So they took him away ,  and chained him to the stake ,  
where he hastily took off his own clothes to make ready for 
the flames .  And he stood before the people with a bald 
head and a white and flowing beard .  He was so firm now 
when the worst was come ,  that he again declared against his 



300 A GUILDS HISTORY OF ENGLAND 

recantation ,  and was so impressive and so undismayed ,  that 
a certain lord ,  who was one of the directors of the execution ,  
called out to the men to make haste  !  When the fire was 
lighted ,  Cranmer ,  true to his latest word ,  stretched out his 
right hand ,  and crying out ,   "  This hand hath offended  !   "  
held it among the flames ,  until it blazed and burned away .  
His heart was found entire among his ashes ,  and he left at 
last a memorable name in English history .  Cardinal Pole 
celebrated the day by saying his first mass ,  and next day he 
was made Archbishop of Canterbury in Cranmers place .  

The Queens husband ,  who Mas now mostly abroad in 
his own dominions ,  and generally made a coarse jest of her 
to his more familiar courtiers ,  was at war with France ,  and 
came over to seek the assistance of England .  England was 
very unwilling to engage in a French war for his sake  ;  but 
it happened that the King of France ,  at this very time ,  
aided a descent upon the English coast .  Hence ,  war was 
declared ,  greatly to Philips satisfaction  ;  and the Queen 
raised a sum of money with which to carry it on ,  by every 
unjustifiable means in her power .  It met with no profit -  
able return ,  for the French Duke of Guise surprised Calais ,  
and the English sustained a complete defeat .  The losses 
they met with in France greatly mortified the national pride ,  
and the Queen never recovered the blow .  

There was a bad fever raging in England at this time ,  
and I am glad to write that the Queen took it ,  and the 
hour of her death came .   "  When I am dead and my body 
is opened ,  "  she said to those around her ,   "  ye shall find 
Calais written on my heart .  "  I should have thought ,  if 
anything were written on it ,  they would have found the 
words — Jane Grey ,  Hooper ,  Rogers ,  Ridley ,  Latimer ,  
Cranmer ,  and three hundred people burnt alive within 
tour years of my wicked reign ,  including sixty women 
and forty little children .  But it is enough that their 
deaths were written in Heaven .  

The Queen died on the seventeenth of November ,  fifteen 
hundred and fifty - eight ,  after reigning not quite five years 
and a half ,  and in the forty - fourth year of her age .  Cardinal 
Pole died of the same fever next day .  

As Bloody Queen Mary ,  this woman has become famous ,  
and as Bloody Queen Mary ,  she will ever be justly remem -  
bered with horror and detestation in Great Britain .  Her 
memory has been held in such abhorrence that some writers 



MARY 30 E 

have arisen in later years to take her part ,  and to show that 
she was ,  upon the whole ,  quite an amiable and cheerful 
sovereign !  By their fruits ye shall know them ,  "  said 
Our Saviour .  The stake and the fire were the fruits of 
this reign ,  and you will judge this Queen by nothing else .  



CHAPTER XXXI 

ENGLAND UNDER ELIZABETH 

There was great rejoicing all over the land when the Lords 
of the Council went down to Hatfield ,  to hail the Princess 
Elizabeth as the new Queen of England .  Weary of the 
barbarities of Marys reign ,  the people looked with hope and 
gladness to the new Sovereign .  The nation seemed to wake 
from a horrible dream  ;  and Heaven ,  so long hidden by the 
smoke of the fires that roasted men and women to death ,  
appeared to brighten once more .  

Queen Elizabeth was five - and - twenty years of age when 
she rode through the streets of London ,  from the Tower to 
Westminster Abbey ,  to be crowned .  Her countenance 
was strongly marked ,  but on tbe whole ,  commanding and 
dignified  ;  her hair was red ,  and her nose something too 
long and sharp for a womans .  She was not the beautiful 
creature her courtiers made out  ;  but she was well enough ,  
and no doubt looked all the better for coming after the dark 
and gloomy Mary .  She was well educated ,  but a round -  
about writer ,  and rather a hard swearer and coarse talker .  
She was clever ,  but cunning and deceitful ,  and inherited 
much of her fathers violent temper .  I mention this now ,  
because she has been so over - praised by one party ,  and so 
over - abused by another ,  that it is hardly possible to under -  
stand the greater part of her reign without first understand -  
ing what kind of woman she really was .  

She began her reign with the great advantage of having 
a very wise and careful Minister ,  Sir William Cecil ,  whom 
she afterwards made Lord Burleigh .  Altogether ,  the 
people had greater reason for rejoicing than they usually 
had ,  when there were processions in the streets : and they 
were happy with some reason .  All kinds of shows and 
images were set up  ;  Goo and Magog were hoisted to the 
top of Temple Bar  ;  and  ( which was more to the purpose )  
the Corporation dutifully presented the young Queen with 



ELIZABETH 303 

the sum of a thousand marks in gold — so heavy a present ,  
that she was obliged to take it into her carriage with both 
hands .  The coronation was a great success  ;  and ,  on the 
next day ,  one of the courtiers presented a petition to the 
new Queen ,  praying that as it was the custom to release 
some prisoners on such occasions ,  she would have the 
goodness to release the four Evangelists ,  Matthew ,  Mark ,  
Luke ,  and John ,  and also the Apostle Saint Paul ,  who had 
been for some time shut up in a strange language so that 
the people could not get at them .  

To this ,  the Queen replied that it would be better first to 
inquire of themselves whether they desired to be released 
or not  ;  and ,  as a means of finding out ,  a great public 
discussion — a sort of religious tournament — was appointed 
to take place between certain champions of the two religions ,  
in Westminster Abbey .  You may suppose that it was soon 
made pretty clear to common sense ,  that for people to 
benefit by what they repeat or read ,  it is rather necessary 
they should understand something about it .  Accordingly ,  
a Church Service in plain English was settled ,  and other 
laws and regulations were made ,  completely establishing 
the great work of the Reformation .  The Romish bishops 
and champions were not harshly dealt with ,  all things 
considered  ;  and the Queens ministers were both prudent 
and merciful .  

The one great trouble of this reign ,  and the unfortunate 
cause of the greater part of such turmoil and bloodshed as 
occurred in it ,  was Mary Stuart ,  Queen op Scots .  We 
will try to understand ,  in as few words as possible ,  who 
Mary was ,  what she was ,  and how she came to be a thorn 
in the royal pillow of Elizabeth .  

She was the daughter of the Queen Regent of Scotland ,  
Mary op Guise .  She had been married ,  when a mere 
child ,  to the Dauphin ,  the son and heir of the King of 
France .  The Pope ,  who pretended that no one could 
rightfully wear the crown of England without his gracious 
permission ,  was strongly opposed to Elizabeth ,  who had 
not asked for the said gracious permission .  And as Mary 
Queen of Scots would have inherited the English crown in 
right of her birth ,  supposing the English Parliament not 
to have altered the succession ,  the Pope himself ,  and mo^t 
of the discontented who were followers of his ,  maintained 
that Mary was the rightful Queen of England ,  and Elizabeth 



304 A CHILDS HISTORY OF ENGLAND 

the wrongful Queen .  Mary being so closely connected with 
France ,  and Prance being jealous of England ,  there was far 
greater danger in this than there would have been if she 
had had no alliance with that great power .  And when her 
young husband ,  on the death of his father ,  became Francis 
the Second ,  King of France ,  the matter grew very serious .  
For ,  the young couple styled themselves King and Queen 
of England ,  and the Pope was disposed to help them by 
doing all the mischief he could .  

Now ,  the reformed religion ,  under the guidance of a stern 
and powerful preacher ,  named John Knox ,  and other such 
men ,  had been making fierce progress in Scotland .  It was 
still a half savage country ,  where there was a great deal 
of murdering and rioting continually going on  ;  and the 
Reformers ,  instead of reforming those evils as they should 
have done ,  went to work in the ferocious old Scottish spirit ,  
laying churches and chapels waste ,  pulling down pictures 
and altars ,  and knocking about the Grey Friars ,  and the 
Black Friars ,  and the White Friars ,  and the friars of all 
sorts of colours ,  in all directions .  This obdurate and harsh 
spirit of the Scottish reformers  ( the Scotch have always been 
rather a sullen and frowning people in religious matters )  
put up the blood of the Romish French court ,  and caused 
France to send troops over to Scotland ,  with the hope of 
setting the friars of all sorts of colours on their legs again  ;  
of conquering that country first ,  and England afterwards  ;  
and so crushing the Reformation all to pieces .  The Scottish 
Reformers ,  who had formed a great league which they called 
The Congregation of the Lord ,  secretly represented to Eliza -  
beth that ,  if the reformed religion got the worst of it with 
them ,  it would be likely to get the worst of it in England 
too  ;  and thus ,  Elizabeth ,  though she had a high notion 
of the rights of Kings and Queens to do anything they 
liked ,  sent an army to Scotland to support the Reformers ,  
who were in arms against their sovereign .  All these 
proceedings led to a treaty of peace at Edinburgh ,  under 
which the French consented to depart from the  " kingdom .  
By a separate treaty .  Mary and her young husband engaged 
to renounce their assumed title of King and Queen of 
England .  But this treaty they never fulfilled .  

It happened ,  soon after matters had <>ot to this state ,  
that the young French King died ,  leaving Mary a young 
widow .  She was then invited by her Scottish subjects to 



ELIZABETH 305 

return home and reign over them  ;  and as she was not 
now happy where she was ,  she ,  after a little time ,  com -  
plied .  

Elizabeth had been Queen three years ,  when Mary Queen 
of Scots embarked at Calais for her own rough quarrelling 
country .  As she came out of the harbour ,  a vessel was lost 
before her eyes ,  and she said ,   "  O  !  good God  !  what an 
omen this is for such a voyage  !  * She was very fond of 
France ,  and sat on the deck ,  looking back at it and weeping ,  
until it was quite dark .  When she went to bed ,  she directed 
to be called at daybreak ,  if the French coast were still 
visible ,  that she might behold it for the last time .  As it 
proved to be a clear morning ,  this was done ,  and she again 
wept for the country she was leaving ,  and said many times ,  
 " Farewell ,  France !  Farewell ,  France !  I shall never see 
thee again  !   "  All this was long remembered afterwards ,  
as sorrowful and interesting in a fair young piincess of 
nineteen .  Indeed ,  I am afraid it gradually came ,  together 
with her other distresses ,  to surround her with greater 
sympathy than she deserved .  

When she came to Scotland ,  and took up her abode at 
the palace of Holyrood in Edinburgh ,  she found herself 
among uncouth strangers and wild uncomfortable customs 
very different from her experiences in the court of France .  
The veiy people who were disposed to love her .  made her 
head ache when she was tired out by her voyage ,  with 
a serenade of discordant music— a fearful concert of bag -  
pipes ,  I suppose — and brought her and her train home to 
her palace on miserable little Scotch horses that appeared to 
be half starved .  Among the people who were not disposed 
to love her ,  she found the powerful leaders of the Eeformed 
Church ,  who were bitter upon her amusements ,  however 
innocent ,  and denounced music and dancing as works of 
the devil .  John Knox himself often lectured her ,  violently 
and angrily ,  and did much to make her life unhappy .  All 
these reasons confirmed her old attachment to the Romish 
religion ,  and caused her ,  there is no doubt ,  most impru -  
dently and dangerously both for herself and for England 
too ,  to give a solemn pledge to the heads of the Romish 
Church that if she ever succeeded to the English crown ,  
she would set up that religion again .  In reading her 
unhappy history ,  you must always remember this  ;  and 
also that during her whole life she was constantly put 



306 A CHILDS HISTORY OF ENGLAND 

forward against the Queen ,  in some form or other ,  by the 
Romish party .  

That Elizabeth ,  on the other hand ,  was not inclined to 
like her ,  is pretty certain .  Elizabeth was very vain and 
jealous ,  and had an extraordinary dislike to people being 
married .  She treated Lady Catherine Grey ,  sister of the 
beheaded Lady Jane ,  with such shameful severity ,  for no 
other reason than her being secretly married ,  that she died 
and her husband was ruined  ;  so ,  when a second marriage 
for Mary began to be talked about ,  probably Elizabeth 
disliked her more .  Not that Elizabeth wanted suitors of 
her own ,  for they started up from Spain ,  Austria ,  Sweden ,  
and England .  Her English lover at this time ,  and one 
whom she much favoured too ,  was Lord Robert Dudley ,  
Earl of Leicester — himself secretly married to Amy Robsart ,  
the daughter of an English gentleman ,  whom he was strongly 
suspected of causing to be murdered ,  down at his country 
seat ,  Cumnor Hall in Berkshire ,  that he might be free to 
marry the Queen .  Upon this story ,  the great writer ,  Sir 
Walter Scott ,  has founded one of his best romances .  But 
if Elizabeth knew how to lead her handsome favourite on ,  
for her own vanity and pleasure ,  she knew how to stop him 
for her own pride  ;  and his love ,  and all the other proposals ,  
came to nothing .  The Queen always declared in good 
set speeches ,  that she would never be married at all ,  but 
would live and die a Maiden Queen .  It was a very pleasant 
and meritorious declaration ,  I suppose  ;  but it has been 
puffed and trumpeted so much ,  that I am rather tired of 
it myself .  

Divers princes proposed to marry Mary ,  but the English 
court had reasons for being jealous of them all ,  and even 
proposed as a matter of policy that she should marry that 
very Earl of Leicester who had aspired to be the husband of 
Elizabeth .  At last .  Lord Darnley ,  son of the Earl of 
Lennox ,  and himself descended from the Royal Family of 
Scotland ,  went over with Elizabeths consent to try his 
fortune at Holyrood .  He was a tall simpleton  ;  and could 
dance and play the guitar  ;  but I know of nothing else he 
could do ,  unless it were to get very drunk ,  and eat glutton -  
ously ,  and make a contemptible spectacle of himself in 
many mean and vain ways .  However ,  he gained Marys 
heart ,  not disdaining in the pursuit of his object to ally 
himself with one of her secretaries ,  David Rizzio ,  who had 



ELIZABETH 307 

great influence with her .  He soon married the Queen .  
This marriage does not say much for her ,  but what followed 
will presently say less .  

Marys brother ,  the Earl of Murray ,  and head of the 
Protestant party in Scotland ,  had opposed this marriage ,  
partly on religious grounds ,  and partly perhaps from per -  
sonal dislike of the very contemptible bridegroom .  When 
it had taken place ,  through Marys gaining over to it the 
more powerful of the lords about her ,  she banished Murray 
for his pains  ;  and ,  when he and some other nobles rose in 
arms to support the reformed religion ,  she herself ,  within 
a month of her wedding day ,  rode against them in armour 
with loaded pistols in her saddle .  Driven out of Scotland ,  
they presented themselves before Elizabeth— who called them 
traitors in public ,  and assisted them in private ,  according 
to her crafty nature .  

Mary had been married but a little while ,  when she began 
to hate her husband ,  who ,  in his turn ,  began to hate that 
David Rizzio ,  with whom he had leagued to gain her favour ,  
and whom he now believed to be her lover .  He hated 
Rizzio to that extent ,  that he made a compact with Lord 
Ruthven and three other lords to get rid of him by murder .  
This wicked agreement they made in solemn secrecy upon 
the first of March ,  fifteen hundred and sixty - six ,  and on the 
night of Saturday the ninth ,  the conspirators were brought 
by Darnley up a private staircase ,  dark and steep ,  into 
a range of rooms where they knew that Mary was sitting at 
supper with her sister ,  Lady Argyle ,  and this doomed man .  
When they went into the room ,  Darnley took the Queen 
round the waist ,  and Lord Ruthven ,  who had risen from 
a bed of sickness to do this murder ,  came in ,  gaunt and 
ghastly ,  leaning on two men .  Rizzio ran behind the Queen 
for shelter and protection .   "  Let him come out of the room ,  "  
said Ruthven .   "  He shall not leave the room ,  "  replied the 
Queen  ;   " I read his danger in your face ,  and it is my will 
that he remain here .  "  They then set upon him ,  struggled 
with him ,  overturned the table ,  dragged him out ,  and 
killed him with fifty - six stabs .  When the Queen heard 
that he was dead ,  she said ,  ■ No more tears .  I will think 
now of revenge  !   "  

Within a day or two ,  she gained her husband over ,  and 
prevailed on the tall idiot to abandon the conspirators and 
fly with her to Dunbar .  There ,  he issued a proclamation ,  



308 A CHILDS HISTORY OF ENGLAND 

audaciously and falsely denying that he had any knowledge 
of the late bloody business  ;  and there they were joined Ly 
the Earl Bothwell and some other nobles .  With their 
help ,  they raised eight thousand men ,  returned to Edinburgh ,  
and drove the assassins into England .  Mary soon afterwards 
gave birth to a son — still thinking of revenge .  

That she should have had a greater scorn for her husband 
after his late cowardice and treachery than she had had 
before ,  was natural enough .  There is little doubt that she 
now began to love Bothwell instead ,  and to plan with him 
means of getting rid of Darnley .  Bothwell had such power 
over her that he induced her even to pardon the assassins 
of Rizzio .  The arrangements for the christening of the 
young Prince were entrusted to him ,  and he was one of the 
most important people at the ceremony ,  where the child was 
named James : Elizabeth being his godmother ,  though not 
present on the occasion .  A week afterwards ,  Darnley ,  who 
had left Mary and gone to his fathers house at Glasgow ,  
being taken ill with the small - pox ,  she sent her own physician 
to attend him .  But there is reason to apprehend that this 
was merely a show and a pretence ,  and that she knew what 
was doing ,  when Bothwell within another month proposed 
to one of the late conspirators against Rizzio ,  to murder 
Darnley ,  u for that it was the Queens mind that he should 
be taken away /  It is certain that on that very day she 
wrote to her ambassador in France ,  complaining of him ,  and 
yet went immediately to Glasgow ,  feigning to be very anxious 
about him ,  and to love him very much .  If she wanted to 
get him in her power ,  she succeeded to her hearts content  ;  
for she induced him to go back with her to Edinburgh ,  and 
to occupy ,  instead of the palace ,  a lone house outside the city 
called the Kirk of Field .  Here ,  he lived for about a week .  
One Sunday night ,  she remained with him until ten oclock .  
and then left him ,  to go to Holyrood to be present at an 
entertainment given in celebration of the marriage of one of 
her favourite servants .  At two oclock in the morning the 
city was shaken by a great explosion ,  and the Kirk of Field 
was blown to atoms .  

Darnley s body was found next day lying under a tree at 
some distance .  How it came there ,  undisfigured and mi -  
scorched by gunpowder ,  and how this crime came to 1 e so 
clumsily and strangely committed ,  it is impossible to discover .  
The deceitful character of Mary ,  and the deceitful character 



ELIZABETH 309 

of Elizabeth ,  have rendered almost every part of their joint 
history uncertain and obscure .  But ,  I fear that Mary was 
unquestionably a party to her husbands murder ,  and that 
this was the revenge she had threatened .  The Scotch people 
universally believed it .  Voices cried out in the streets of 
Edinburgh in the dead of the night ,  for justice on the 
murderess .  Placards were posted by unknown hands in the 
public places denouncing Both well as the murderer ,  and the 
Queen as his accomplice  ;  and ,  when he afterwards married 
her  ( though himself already married )  ,  previously making 
a show of taking her prisoner by force ,  the indignation of 
the people knew no bounds .  The women particularly are 
described as having been quite frantic against the Queen ,  and 
to have hooted and cried after her in the streets with terrific 
vehemence .  

Such guilty unions seldom prosper .  This husband and 
wife had lived together but a month ,  when they were 
separated for ever by the successes of a band of Scotch nobles 
who associated against them for the protection of the young 
Prince : whom Bothwell had vainly endeavoured to lay hold 
of .  and whom he would certainly have murdered ,  if the 
Earl of Mar ,  in whose hands the boy was ,  had not been 
firmly and honourably faithful to his trust .  Before this 
angry power ,  Bothwell fled abroad ,  where he died ,  a prisoner 
and mad .  nine miserable years afterwards .  Mary being 
found by the associated lords to deceive them at every turn ,  
was sent a prisoner to Lochleven Castle  ;  which ,  as it stood 
in the midst of a lake ,  could only be approached by boat .  
Here ,  one Lord Lindsay ,  who was so much of a brute that 
the nobles would have done better if they had chosen 
a mere gentleman for their messenger ,  made her sign 
her abdication ,  and appoint Murray ,  Regent of Scotland .  
Here ,  too ,  Murray saw her in a sorrowing and humbled 
state .  

She had better have remained in the castle of Lochleven ,  
dull prison as it was .  with the rippling of the lake against 
it .  and the moving shadows of the water on the room - walls  ;  
but she could not rest there ,  and more than once tried to 
escape .  The first time she had nearly succeeded ,  dressed in 
the clothes of her own washerwoman ,  but putting up her 
hand to prevent one of the boatmen from lifting her veil ,  
the men suspected her ,  seeing how white it was ,  and rowed 
her back again .  A short time afterwards ,  her fascinating 



310 A CHILD S HISTORY OF ENGLAND 

manners enlisted in her cause a boy in the Castle ,  called the 
little Douglas ,  who ,  while the family were at supper ,  stole 
the keys of the great gate ,  went softly out with the Queen ,  
locked the gate on the outside ,  and rowed her away across the 
lake ,  sinking the keys as they went along .  On the opposite 
shore she was met by another Douglas ,  and some few lords  ;  
and ,  so accompanied ,  rode away on horseback to Hamilton ,  
where they raised three thousand men .  Here ,  she issued 
a proclamation declaring that the abdication she had signed 
in her prison was illegal ,  and requiring the Regent to yield 
to his lawful Queen .  Being a steady soldier ,  and in no way 
discomposed although he was without an army ,  Murray 
pretended to treat with her ,  until he had collected a force 
about half equal to her own ,  and then he gave her battle .  
In one quarter of an hour he cut down all her hopes .  She 
had another weary ride on horseback of sixty long Scotch 
miles ,  and took shelter at Dundrennan Abbey ,  whence she 
fled for safety to Elizabeths dominions .  

Mary Queen of Scots came to England — to her own ruin .  
the trouble of the kingdom ,  and the misery and death of 
many — in the year one thousand five hundred and sixty -  
eight .  How she left it and the world ,  nineteen years after -  
wards ,  we have now to see .  

Second Part .  

When Mary Queen of Scots arrived in England ,  without 
money and even without any other clothes than those she 
wore ,  she wrote to Elizabeth ,  representing herself as an 
innocent and injured piece of Royalty ,  and entreating her 
assistance to oblige her Scottish subjects to take her back 
again and obey her .  But ,  as her character was already known 
in England to be a very different one from what she made 
it out to be ,  she was told in answer that she must first clear 
herself .  Made uneasy by this condition .  Mary ,  rather than 
stay in England ,  would have gone to Spain ,  or to France ,  
or would even have gone back to Scotland .  But .  as her 
doing either would have been likely to trouble England 
afresh ,  it was decided that she should be detained here .  
She first came to Carlisle ,  and ,  after that ,  was moved about 
from castle to castle ,  as was considered necessary  ;  but 
England she never left again .  

After trying very hard to get rid of the necessity of 



ELIZABETH 3II 

clearing herself ,  Mary ,  advised by Lord Herries ,  her best 
friend in England ,  agreed to answer the charges against her ,  
if the Scottish noblemen who made them would attend to 
maintain them before such English noblemen as Elizabeth 
might appoint for that purpose .  Accordingly ,  such an as -  
sembly ,  under the name of a conference ,  met ,  first at York ,  
and afterwards at Hampton Court .  In its presence Lord 
Lennox ,  Darnleys father ,  openly charged Mary with the 
murder of his son  ;  and whatever Marys friends may now say 
or write in her behalf ,  there is no doubt that ,  when her 
brother Murray produced against her a casket containing 
certain guilty letters and verses which he stated to have 
passed between her and Bothwell ,  she withdrew from the 
inquiry .  Consequently ,  it is to be supposed that she was 
then considered guilty by those who had the best oppor -  
tunities of judging of the truth ,  and that the feeling which 
afterwards arose in her behalf was a very generous but not 
a very reasonable one .  

However ,  the Duke of Norfolk ,  an honourable but 
rather weak nobleman ,  partly because Mary was captivating ,  
partly because he was ambitious ,  partly because he was over -  
persuaded by artful plotters against Elizabeth ,  conceived 
a strong idea that he would like to marry the Queen of 
Scots— though he was a little frightened ,  too ,  by the letters 
in the casket .  This idea being secretly encouraged by some 
of the noblemen of Elizabeths court ,  and even by the 
favourite Earl of Leicester  ( because it was objected to by 
other favourites who were his rivals )  ,  Mary expressed her 
approval of it ,  and the King of France and the King of 
Spain are supposed to have done the same .  It was not so 
quietly planned ,  though ,  but that it came to Elizabeths 
ears ,  who warned the Duke  " to be careful what sort of 
pillow he was going to lay his head upon .  "  He made 
a humble reply at the time  ;  but turned sulky soon after -  
wards ,  and ,  being considered dangerous ,  was sent to the 
Tower .  

Thus ,  from the moment of Marys coming to England she 
began to be the centre of plots and miseries .  

A rise of the Catbolics in the north was the next of these ,  
and it was only checked by many executions and much 
bloodshed .  It was followed by a great conspiracy of the 
Pope and some of the Catholic sovereigns of Europe to 
depose Elizabeth ,  place Mary on the throne ,  and restore 



312 A CHILD S HISTORY OF ENGLAND 

the unreformed religion .  It is almost impossible to doubt 
that Mary knew and approved of this  ;  and the Pope himself 
was so hot in the matter that he issued a bull ,  in which he 
openly called Elizabeth the •pretended Queen "  of England ,  
excommunicated her .  and excommunicated all her subjects 
who should continue to obey her .  A copy of this miserable 
paper got into London ,  and was found one morning publicly 
posted on the Bishop of Londons gate .  A great hue and 
cry being raised ,  another copy was found in the chamber 
of a student of Lincolns Inn ,  who confessed ,  being put 
upon the rack ,  that he had received it from one John 
Felton ,  a rich gentleman who lived across the Thames ,  
near Southwark .  This John Felton ,  being put upon the 
rack too ,  confessed that he had posted the placard on the 
Bishops gate .  For this offence he was ,  within four days ,  
taken to St .  Pauls Churchyard ,  and there hanged and 
quartered .  As to the Popes bull ,  the people by the reforma -  
tion having thrown off the Pope ,  did not care much ,  you 
may suppose ,  for the Popes throwing off them .  It was 
a mere dirty piece of paper ,  and not half so powerful as 
a street ballad .  

On the very day when Felton was brought to his trial ,  
the poor Duke of Norfolk was released .  It would have 
been well for him if he had kept away from the Tower 
evermore ,  and from the snares that had taken him there .  
But ,  even while he was in that dismal place he corresponded 
with Mary ,  and as soon as he was out of it ,  he began to 
plot again .  Being discovered in correspondence with the 
Pope ,  with a view to a rising in England which should 
force Elizabeth to consent to his marriage with Mary and 
to repeal the laws against the Catholics ,  he was re - committed 
to the Tower and brought to trial .  He was found guilty 
by the unanimous verdict of the Lords who tried him ,  and 
was sentenced to the block .  

It is very difficult to make out .  at this distance of time ,  
and between opposite accounts ,  whether Elizabeth really 
was a humane woman ,  or desired to appear so ,  or was 
fearful of shedding the blood of people of great name who 
were popular in the country .  Twice she commanded and 
countermanded the execution of this Duke ,  and it did not 
take place until five months after his trial .  The scaffold 
was erected on Tower Hill ,  and there he died like a brave 
man .  He refused to have his eyes bandaged ,  saying that 



ELIZABETH 3T3 

he was not at all afraid of death  ;  and he admitted the 
justice of his sentence ,  and was much regretted hy the 
people .  

Although Mary had shrunk at the most important time 
from disproving her guilt ,  she was very careful never to 
do anything that would admit it .  All such proposals as 
were made to her hy Elizabeth for her release ,  required that 
admission in some form or other ,  and therefore came to 
nothing .  Moreover ,  both women being artful and trea -  
cherous ,  and neither ever trusting the other ,  it was not 
likely that they could ever make an agreement .  So ,  the 
Parliament ,  aggravated by what the Pope had done ,  made 
new and strong laws against the spreading of the Catholic 
religion in England ,  and declared it treason in any one to 
say that the Queen and her successors were not the lawful 
sovereigns of England .  It would have done more than 
this ,  but for Elizabeths moderation .  

Since the Eeformation ,  there had come to be three great 
sects of religious people— or people who called themselves 
so — in England  ;  that is to say ,  those who belonged to the 
Reformed Church ,  those who belonged to the Unreformed 
Church ,  and those who were called the Puritans ,  because 
they said that they wanted to have everything very pure 
and plain in all the Church service .  These last were for 
the most part an uncomfortable people ,  who thought it 
highly meritorious to dress in a hideous manner ,  talk through 
their noses ,  and oppose all harmless enjoyments .  But they 
were powerful too ,  and very much in earnest ,  and they 
were one and all the determined enemies of the Queen of 
Scots .  The Protestant feeling in England was further 
strengthened by the tremendous cruelties to which Protest -  
ants were exposed in France and in the Netherlands .  Scores 
of thousands of them were put to death in those countries 
with every cruelty that can be imagined ,  and at last ,  in the 
autumn of the year one thousand five hundred and seventy -  
two ,  one of the greatest barbarities ever committed in the 
world took place at Paris .  

It is called in history .  The Massacre of Saint Bar -  
tholomew ,  because it took place on Saint Bartholomews 
Eve .  The day fell on Saturday the twenty - third of August .  
On that day all the great leaders of the Protestants  ( who 
were there called Huguenots )  were assembled together ,  for 
the purpose ,  as was represented to them ,  of doing honour 



3M A CHILD S HISTORY OF ENGLAND 

to the marriage of their chief ,  the young King of Navarre ,  
with the sister of Charles the Ninth : a miserable young 
King who then occupied the French throne .  This dull 
creature was made to believe by his mother and other fierce 
Catholics about him that the Huguenots meant to take his 
life  ;  and he was persuaded to give secret orders that ,  on 
the tolling of a great bell ,  they should be fallen upon by 
an overpowering force of armed men ,  and slaughtered 
wherever they could be found .  When the appointed hour 
was close at hand ,  the stupid wretch ,  trembling from head 
to foot ,  was taken into a balcony by his mother to see the 
atrocious work begun .  The moment the bell tolled ,  the 
murderers broke forth .  During all that night and the two 
next days ,  they broke into the houses ,  fired the houses ,  
shot and stabbed the Protestants ,  men ,  women ,  and children ,  
and flung their bodies into the streets .  They were shot at 
in the streets as they passed along ,  and their blood ran 
down the gutters .  Upwards of ten thousand Protestants 
were killed in Paris alone  ;  in all France four or five times 
that number .  To return thanks to Heaven for these dia -  
bolical murders ,  the Pope and his train actually went in 
public procession at Kome ,  and as if this were not shame 
enough for them ,  they had a medal struck to commemorate 
the event .  But ,  however comfortable the wholesale murders 
were to these high authorities ,  they had not that soothing 
effect upon the doll - King .  I am happy to state that he never 
knew a moments peace afterwards  ;  that he was continually 
crying out that he saw the Huguenots covered with blood 
and wounds falling dead before him  ;  and that he died 
within a year ,  shrieking and yelling and raving to that 
degree ,  that if all the Popes who had ever lived had been 
rolled into one ,  they would not have afforded His guilty 
Majesty the slightest consolation .  

When the terrible news of the massacre arrived in 
England ,  it made a powerful impression indeed upon the 
people .  If they began to run a little wild against the 
Catholics at about this time ,  this fearful reason for it ,  
coming so soon after the days of bloody Queen Mary ,  must 
be remembered in their excuse .  The Court was not quite so 
honest as the people— but perhaps it sometimes is not .  It 
received the French ambassador ,  with all the lords and 
ladies dressed in deep mourning ,  and keeping a profound 
silence .  Nevertheless ,  a proposal of marriage which he 



ELIZABETH 315 

had made to Elizabeth only two days before the eve of 
Saint Bartholomew ,  on behalf of the Duke of Alencon ,  
the French Kings brother ,  a boy of seventeen ,  still went 
on  ;  while on the other hand ,  in her usual crafty way ,  
the Queen secretly supplied the Huguenots with money 
and weapons .  

I must say that for a Queen who made all those fine 
speeches ,  of which I have confessed myself to be rather 
tired ,  about living and dying a Maiden Queen ,  Elizabeth 
was  " going "  to be married pretty often .  Besides always 
having some English favourite or other whom she by turns 
encouraged and swore at and knocked about — for the Maiden 
Queen was very free with her fists — she held this French 
Duke off and on through several years .  When he at last 
came over to England ,  the marriage articles were actually 
drawn up ,  and it was settled that the wedding should take 
place in six weeks .  The Queen was then so bent upon it ,  
that she prosecuted a poor Puritan named Stubbs ,  and 
a poor bookseller named Page ,  for writing and publishing 
a pamphlet against it .  Their right hands were chopped off 
for this crime  ;  and poor Stubbs — more loyal than I should 
have been myself under the circumstances— immediately 
pulled off his hat with his left hand ,  and cried ,   "  God save 
the Queen  !  Stubbs was cruelly treated  ;  for the marriage 
never took place after all ,  though the Queen pledged herself 
to the Duke with a ring from her own finger .  He went 
away ,  no better than he came ,  when the courtship had lasted 
some ten years altogether  ;  and he died a couple of years 
afterwards ,  mourned by Elizabeth ,  who appears to have 
been really fond of him .  It is not much to her credit ,  for 
he was a bad enough member of a bad family .  

To return to the Catholics .  There arose two orders of 
priests ,  who were very busy in England ,  and who were 
much dreaded .  These were the Jesuits  ( who were every -  
where in all sorts of disguises )  ,  and the Seminary Priests .  
The people had a great horror of the first ,  because they 
were known to have taught that murder was lawful if it 
were done with an object of which they approved  ;  and 
they had a great horror of the second ,  because they came 
to teach the old religion ,  and to be the successors of  "  Queen 
Marys priests ,  "  as those yet lingering in England were 
called ,  when they should die out .  The severest laws were 
made against them ,  and were most unmercifully executed .  



316 A CHILDS HISTORY OF ENGLAND 

Those who sheltered them in their houses often suffered 
heavily for what was an act of humanity  ;  and the rack ,  
that cruel torture which tore mens limbs asunder ,  was 
constantly kept going .  What these unhappy men confessed ,  
or what was ever confessed by any one under that agony ,  
must always be received with great doubt ,  as it is certain 
that people have frequently owned to the most absurd and 
impossible crimes to escape such dreadful suffering .  But 
I cannot doubt it to have been proved by papers ,  that there 
were many plots ,  both among the Jesuits ,  and with France ,  
and with Scotland ,  and with Spain ,  for the destruction of 
Queen Elizabeth ,  for the placing of Mary on the throne ,  
and for the revival of the old religion .  

If the English people were too ready to believe in plots ,  

there were ,  as I have said ,  good reasons for it .  When the 

massacre of Saint Bartholomew was yet fresh in their 

recollection ,  a great Protestant Dutch hero ,  the Prince of 

Orange ,  was shot by an assassin ,  who confessed that he 

had been kept and trained for the purpose in a college of 

Jesuits .  The Dutch ,  in this surprise and distress ,  offered 

to make Elizabeth their sovereign ,  but she declined the 

honour ,  and sent them a small army instead ,  under the 

command of the Earl of Leicester ,  who ,  although a capital 

Court favourite ,  was not much of a general .  He did so 

little in Holland ,  that his campaign there would probably 

have been forgotten ,  but for its occasioning the death of 

one of the best writers ,  the best knights ,  and the best 

gentlemen ,  of that or any age .  This was Sir Philip Sidney ,  

who was wounded by a musket ball in the thigh as he 

mounted a fresh horse ,  after having had his own killed 

under him .  He had to ride back wounded ,  a long distance ,  

and was very faint with fatigue and loss of blood ,  when 

some water ,  for which he had eagerly asked ,  was handed 

to him .  But he was so good and gentle even then ,  that 

seeing a poor badly wounded common soldier lying on the 

ground ,  looking at the water with longing eyes ,  he said ,  

Thy necessity is greater than mine ,  "  and gave it up to 

him .  This touching action of a noble heart is perhaps as 

well known as any incident in history — is as famous far 

and wide as the blood - stained Tower of London ,  with its 

axe ,  and block ,  and murders out of number .  So delightful 

is an act of true humanity ,  and so glad are mankind to 

remember it .  



ELIZABETH 317 

At home ,  intelligence of plots began to thicken every day .  
I suppose the people never did live under such continual 
terrors as those by which they were possessed now ,  of 
Catholic risings ,  and burnings ,  and poisonings ,  and I dont 
know what .  Still ,  we must always remember that they 
lived near and close to awful realities of that kind ,  and 
that with their experience it was not difficult to believe 
in any enormity .  The government had the same fear ,  and 
did not take the best means of discovering the truth — for ,  
besides torturing the suspected ,  it employed paid spies ,  
who will always lie for their own profit .  It even made 
some of the conspiracies it brought to light ,  by sending 
false letters to disaffected people ,  inviting them to join 
in pretended plots ,  which they too readily did .  

But ,  one great real plot was at length discovered ,  and it 
ended the career of Mary ,  Queen of Scots .  A seminary 
priest named Ballard ,  and a Spanish soldier named Savage ,  
set on and encouraged by certain French priests ,  imparted 
a design to one Antony Baeington — a gentleman of fortune 
in Derbyshire ,  who had been for some time a secret agent 
of Marys — for murdering the Queen .  Babington then con -  
fided the scheme to some other Catholic gentlemen who 
were his friends ,  and they joined in it heartily .  They 
were vain weak - headed young men ,  ridiculously confident ,  
and preposterously proud of their plan  ;  for they got a gim -  
crack painting made ,  of the six choice spirits who were to 
murder Elizabeth ,  with Babington in an attitude for the 
centre figure .  Two of their number ,  however ,  one of whom 
was a priest ,  kept Elizabeths wisest minister ,  Sir Francis 
Walsingham ,  acquainted with the whole project from the 
first .  The conspirators were completely deceived to the 
final point ,  when Babington gave Savage ,  because he was 
shabby ,  a ring from his fingei -  ,  and some money from his 
purse ,  wherewith to buy himself new clothes in which to 
kill the Queen .  Walsingham ,  having then full evidence 
against the whole band ,  and two letters of Marys besides ,  
resolved to seize them .  Suspecting something wrong ,  they 
stole out of the city ,  one by one ,  and hid themselves in 
St .  Johns Wood ,  and other places which really were hiding 
places then  ;  but they were all taken ,  and all executed .  
When they were seized ,  a gentleman was sent from Court 
to inform Mary of the fact ,  and of her being involved in 
the discoveiy .  Her friends have complained that she was 



3i8 a childs history of England 

kept in very hard and severe custody .  It does not appear 
very likely ,  for she was going out a hunting that very 
morning .  

Queen Elizabeth had been warned long ago ,  by one in 
France who had good information of what was secretly 
doing ,  that in holding Mary alive ,  she held • the wolf who 
would devour her .  "  The Bishop of London had ,  more lately ,  
given the Queens favourite minister the advice in writing ,  
 " forthwith to cut off the Scottish Queens head /  The 
question now was ,  what to do with her? The Earl of 
Leicester wrote a little note home from Holland ,  recom -  
mending that she should be quietly poisoned  ;  that noble 
favourite having accustomed his mind ,  it is possible ,  to 
remedies of that nature .  His black advice ,  however ,  was 
disregarded ,  and she was brought to trial at Fotheringay 
Castle in Northamptonshire ,  before a tribunal of forty ,  com -  
posed of both religions .  There ,  and in the Star Chamber 
at Westminster ,  the trial lasted a fortnight .  She defended 
herself with great ability ,  but could only deny the con -  
fessions that had been made by Babington and others  ;  
could only call her own letters ,  produced against her by her 
own secretaries ,  forgeries  ;  and ,  in short ,  could only deny 
everything .  She was found guilty ,  and declared to have 
incurred the penalty of death .  The Parliament met ,  
approved the sentence ,  and prayed the Queen to have it 
executed .  The Queen replied that she requested them to 
consider whether no means could be found of saving Marys 
life without endangering her own .  The Parliament rejoined ,  
No  ;  and the citizens illuminated their houses and lighted 
bonfires ,  in token of their joy that all these plots and 
troubles were to be ended by the death of the Queen of 
Scots .  

She ,  feeling sure that her time was now come ,  wrote a 
letter to the Queen of England ,  making three entreaties  ;  
first ,  that she might be buried in France  ;  secondly ,  that she 
might not be executed in secret ,  but before her servants and 
some others  ;  thirdly ,  that after her death ,  her servants 
should not be molested ,  but should be suffered to go home 
with the legacies she left them .  It was an affecting letter .  
and Elizabeth shed tears over it ,  but sent no answer .  Then 
came a special ambassador from France ,  and another from 
Scotland ,  to intercede for Marys life  ;  and then the nation 
began to clamour ,  more and more ,  fur her death .  




MARY QUEEN OF SCOTS READING THE DEATH WARRANT 



ELIZABETH 32 1 

What the real feelings or intentions of Elizabeth were ,  
can never be known now  ;  but I strongly suspect her of 
only wishing one thing more than Marys death ,  and that 
was to keep free of the blame of it .  On the first of February ,  
one thousand five hundred and eighty - seven ,  Lord Burleigh 
having drawn out the warrant for the execution ,  the Queen 
sent to the secretary Davison to bring it to her ,  that she 
might sign it : which she did .  Next day ,  when Davison 
told her it was sealed ,  she angrily asked him why such 
haste was necessary? Next day but one ,  she joked about 
it ,  and swore a little .  Again ,  next day but one ,  she seemed 
to complain that it was not yet done ,  but still she would not 
be plain with those about her .  So ,  on the seventh ,  the Earls 
of Kent and Shrewsbury ,  with the Sheriff of Northampton -  
shire ,  came with the warrant to Fotheringay ,  to tell the 
Queen of Scots to prepare for death .  

When those messengers of ill omen were gone ,  Maiy 

made a frugal supper ,  drank to her servants ,  read over her 

will ,  went to bed ,  slept for some hours ,  and then arose and 

passed the remainder of the night saying prayers .  In the 

morning she dressed herself in her best clothes  ;  and ,  at 

eight oclock when the sheriff came for her to her chapel ,  

took leave of her servants who were there assembled praying 

with her ,  and went down - stairs ,  carrying a Bible in one 

hand and a crucifix in the other .  Two of her women and 

four of her men were allowed to be present in the hall  ;  

where a low scaffold ,  only two feet from the ground ,  was 

erected and covered with black  ;  and where the executioner 

from the Tower ,  and his assistant ,  stood ,  dressed in black 

velvet .  The hall was full of people .  While the sentence 

was being read she sat upon a stool  ;  and ,  when it was 

finished ,  she again denied her guilt ,  as she had done before .  

The Earl of Kent and the Dean of Peterborough ,  in their 

Protestant zeal ,  made some very unnecessary speeches to 

her  ;  to which she replied that she died in the Catholic 

religion ,  and they need not trouble themselves about that 

matter .  When her head and neck were uncovered by the 

executioners ,  she said that she had not been used to be 

undressed by such hands ,  or before so much company .  

Finally ,  one of her women fastened a cloth over her face ,  

and she laid her neck upon the block ,  and repeated more 

than once in Latin ,   "  Into thy hands ,  O Lord ,  I commend 

my spirit  !   "  Some say her head was struck off in two 

1 .  a a 



322 A CHILD S HISTORY OF ENGLAND 

blows ,  some say in three .  However that be ,  when it was 
held up ,  streaming with blood ,  the real hair beneath the 
false hair she had long worn was seen to be as grey as that 
of a woman of seventy ,  though she was at that time only in 
her forty - sixth year .  All her beauty was gone .  

But she was beautiful enough to her little dog ,  who 
cowered under her dress ,  frightened ,  when she went upon 
the scaffold ,  and who lay down beside her headless body 
when all her earthly sorrows were over .  

Third Part .  

On its being formally made known to Elizabeth that the 
sentence had been executed on the Queen of Scots ,  she 
showed the utmost grief and rage ,  drove her favourites from 
her with violent indignation ,  and sent Davison to the 
Tower  ;  from which place he was only released in the end 
by paying an immense fine which completely ruined him .  
Elizabeth not only over -  acted her part in making these 
pretences ,  but most basely reduced to poverty one of her 
faithful servants for no other fault than obeying her com -  
mands .  

James ,  King of Scotland ,  Marys son ,  made a show like -  
wise of being very angry on the occasion  ;  but he was a 
pensioner of England to the amount of five thousand pounds 
a year ,  and he had known very little of his mother ,  and he 
possibly regarded her as the murderer of his father ,  and he 
soon took it quietly .  

Philip ,  King of Spain ,  however ,  threatened to do greater 
things than ever had been done yet ,  to set up the Catholic 
religion and punish Protestant England .  Elizabeth ,  hearing 
that he and the Prince of Parma were making great prepara -  
tions for this purpose ,  in order to be beforehand with them 
sent out Admiral Drake  ( a famous navigator ,  who had 
sailed about the world ,  and had already brought great 
plunder from Spain )  to the port of Cadiz ,  where he burnt a 
hundred vessels full of stores .  This great loss obliged the 
Spaniards to put off the invasion for a year ;  but it was 
none the less formidable for that ,  amounting to one hundred 
and thirty ships ,  nineteen thousand soldiers ,  eight thousand 
sudors ,  two thousand slaves ,  and between two and three 
thousand great guns .  England was not idle in making 
ready to resist this great force .  All the men between sixteen 



ELIZABETH 323 

years old and sixty ,  were trained and drilled  ;  the national 
fleet of ships  ( in number only thirty - four at first )  was 
enlarged by public contributions and by private ships ,  fitted 
out by noblemen  ;  the city of London ,  of its own accord ,  
furnished double the number of ships and men that it was 
required to provide  ;  and ,  if ever the national spirit was up 
in England ,  it was up all through the country to resist the 
Spaniards .  Some of the Queens advisers were for seizing 
the principal English Catholics ,  and putting them to death  ;  
but the Queen — who ,  to her honour ,  used to say ,  that she 
would never believe any ill of her subjects ,  which a parent 
would not believe of her own children — rejected the advice ,  
and only confined a few of those who were the most sus -  
pected ,  in the fens in Lincolnshire .  The great body of 
Catholics deserved this confidence  ;  for they behaved most 
loyally ,  nobly ,  and bravely .  

So ,  with all England firing up like one strong angry man ,  
and with both sides of the Thames fortified ,  and with the 
soldiers under arms ,  and with the sailors in their ships ,  the 
country waited for the coming of the proud Spanish fleet ,  
which was called The Invincible Armada .  The Queen 
herself ,  riding in armour on a white horse ,  and the Earl of 
Essex and the Earl of Leicester holding her bridle rein ,  
made a brave speech to the troops at Tilbury Fort opposite 
Gravesend ,  which was received with such enthusiasm as is 
seldom known .  Then came the Spanish Armada into the 
English Channel ,  sailing along in the form of a half moon ,  
of such great size that it was seven miles broad .  But the 
English were quickly upon it ,  and woe then to all the 
Spanish ships that dropped a little out of the half moon ,  for 
the English took them instantly  !  And it soon appeared 
that the great Armada was anything but invincible ,  for on 
a summer night ,  bold Drake sent eight blazing fire - ships 
right into the midst of it .  In terrible consternation the 
Spaniards tried to get out to sea ,  and so became dispersed  ;  
the English pursued them at a great advantage  ;  a storm 
came on ,  and drove the Spaniards among rocks and shoals  ;  
and the swift end of the Invincible fleet was ,  that it lost 
thirty great ships and ten thousand men ,  and ,  defeated and 
disgraced ,  sailed home again .  Being afraid to go by the 
English Channel ,  it sailed all round Scotland and Ireland  ;  
some of the ships getting cast away on the latter coast in bad 
weather ,  the Irish ,  who were a kind of savages ,  plundered 



324 A CHILD S HISTORY OF ENGLAND 

those vessels and killed their crews .  So ended this great 
attempt to invade and conquer England .  And I think it 
will be a long time before any other invincible fleet coming 
to England with the same object ,  will fare much better 
than the Spanish Armada .  

Though the Spanish king had had this bitter taste of 
English bravery ,  he was so little the wiser for it ,  as still to 
entertain his old designs ,  and even to conceive the absurd 
idea of placing his daughter on the English throne .  But 
the Earl of Essex ,  Sir Walter Ealeigh ,  Sir Thomas 
Howard ,  and some other distinguished leaders ,  put to 
sea from Plymouth ,  entered the port of Cadiz once more ,  
obtained a complete victory over the shipping assembled 
there ,  and got possession of the town .  In obedience to the 
Queens express instructions ,  they behaved with great 
humanity  ;  and the principal loss of the Spaniards was a 
vast sum of money which they had to pay for ransom .  This 
was one of many gallant achievements on the sea ,  effected 
in this reign .  Sir Walter Ealeigh himself ,  after marrying 
a maid of honour and giving offence to the Maiden Queen 
thereby ,  had already sailed to South America in search of 
gold .  

The Earl of Leicester was now dead ,  and so was Sir 
Thomas Walsingham ,  whom Lord Burleigh was soon to 
follow .  The principal favourite was the Earl of Essex ,  a 
spirited and handsome man ,  a favourite with the people too 
as well as with the Queen ,  and possessed of many admirable 
qualities .  It was much debated at Court whether there 
should be peace with Spain or no ,  and he was very urgent 
for war .  He also tried hard to have his own way in the 
appointment of a deputy to govern in Ireland .  One day ,  
while this question was in dispute ,  he hastily took offence ,  
and turned his back upon the Queen  ;  as a gentle reminder 
of which impropriety ,  the Queen gave him a tremendous 
box on the ear ,  and told him to go to the devil .  He went 
home instead ,  and did not reappear at Court for half a year 
or so ,  when he and the Queen were reconciled ,  though never 
 ( as some suppose )  thoroughly .  

From this time the fate of the Earl of Essex and that of 
the Queen seemed to be blended together .  The Irish were 
still perpetually quarrelling and fighting among themselves ,  
and he went over to Ireland as Lord Lieutenant ,  to the 
great joy of his enemies  ( Sir Walter Ealeigh among the rest )  ,  



ELIZABETH 325 

who were glad to have so dangerous a rival far off .  Not 
being by any means successful there ,  and knowing that 
his enemies would take advantage of that circumstance to 
injure him with the Queen ,  he came home again ,  though 
against her orders .  The Queen being taken by surprise 
when he appeared before her ,  gave him her hand to kiss ,  
and he was overjoyed — though it was not a very lovely 
hand by this time— but in the course of the same day she 
ordered him to confine himself to his room ,  and two or 
three days afterwards had him taken into custody .   " With 
the same sort of caprice — and as capricious an old woman 
she now was ,  as ever wore a crown or a head either — she 
sent him broth from her own table on his falling ill from 
anxiety ,  and cried about him .  

He was a man who could find comfort and occupation in 
his books ,  and he did so for a time  ;  not the least happy 
time ,  I dare say ,  of his life .  But it happened unfortunately 
for him ,  that he held a monopoly in sweet wines : which 
means that nobody could sell them without purchasing his 
permission .  This right ,  which was only for a term ,  expiring ,  
he applied to have it renewed .  The Queen refused ,  with the 
rather strong observation — but she did make strong observa -  
tions — that an unruly beast niust be stinted in his food .  
Upon this ,  the angry Earl ,  who had been already deprived 
of many offices ,  thought himself in danger of complete ruin ,  
and turned against the Queen ,  whom he called a vain old 
woman who had grown as crooked in her mind as she had 
in her figure .  These uncomplimentary expressions the 
Indies of the Court immediately snapped up and carried 
to the Queen ,  whom they did not put in a better temper ,  
you may believe .  The same Court ladies ,  when they had 
beautiful dark hair of their own ,  used to wear false red hair ,  
to be like the Queen .  So they were not very high - spirited 
ladies ,  however high in rank .  

The worst object of the Earl of Essex ,  and some friends 
of his who used to meet at Lord Southamptons house ,  was 
to obtain possession of the Queen ,  and oblige her by force to 
dismiss her ministers and change her favourites .  On Saturday 
the seventh of February ,  one thousand six hundred and one ,  
the council suspecting this ,  summoned the Earl to come 
before them .  He ,  pretending to be ill ,  declined  ;  it was then 
settled among his friends ,  that as the next day would be 
Sunday ,  when many of the citizens usually assembled at the 



326 A CHILDS HISTORY OF ENGLAND 

Cross by St .  Pauls Cathedral ,  he should make one hold effort 
to induce them to rise and follow him to the Palace .  

So ,  on the Sunday morning ,  he and a small body of 
adherents started out of his house — Essex House by the 
Strand ,  with steps to the river — having first shut up in 
it ,  as prisoners ,  some members of the council who came to 
exainine him — and hurried into the City with the Earl at 
their head ,  crying out  "  For the Queen  !  For the Queen  !  
A plot is laid for my life  !   "  No one heeded them ,  however ,  
and when they came to St .  Pauls there were no citizens 
there .  In the meantime the prisoners at Essex House had 
been released by one of the Earls own friends  ;  he had been 
promptly proclaimed a traitor in the City itself ;  and the 
streets were barricaded with carts and guarded by soldiers .  
The Earl got back to his house by water ,  with difficulty ,  and 
after an attempt to defend his house against the troops 
and camion by which it was soon surrounded ,  gave himself 
up that night .  He was brought to trial on the nineteenth ,  
and found guilty  ;  on the twenty - fifth ,  he was executed on 
Tower Hill ,  where he died ,  at thirty - four years old ,  both 
courageously and penitently .  His step - father suffered with 
him .  His enemy ,  Sir Walter Raleigh ,  stood near the scaffold 
all the time — but not so near it as we shall see him stand ,  
before we finish his history .  

In this case ,  as in the cases of the DuKe of Norfolk 
and Mary Queen of Scots ,  the Queen had commanded ,  and 
countermanded ,  and again commanded ,  the execution .  It is 
probable that the death of her young and gallant favourite 
in the prime of his good qualities ,  was never off her mind 
afterwards ,  but she held out ,  the same vain obstinate and 
capricious woman ,  for another year .  Then she danced before 
her Court on a state occasion — and cut ,  I should think ,  
a mighty ridiculous figure ,  doing so in an immense ruff ,  
stomacher and wig ,  at seventy years old .  For another year 
still ,  she held out ,  but .  without any more dancing ,  and as 
a moody sorrowful broken creature .  At last ,  on the tenth 
of March ,  one thousand six hundred and three ,  having been 
ill of a very bad cold ,  and made worse by the death of the 
Countess of Nottingham who was her intimate friend ,  she 
fell into a stupor and was supposed to be dead .  She recovered 
her consciousness ,  however ,  and then nothing would induce 
her to go to bed  ;  for she said that she knew that if she did ,  
she should never get up again .  There she lay for ten days ,  



ELIZABETH 327 

on cushions on the floor ,  without any food ,  until the Lord 
Admiral got her into bed at last ,  partly by persuasions and 
partly by main force .  When they asked her who should 
succeed her ,  she replied that her seat had been the seat of 
Kings ,  and that she would have for her successor ,   " No 
rascals son ,  but a Kings .  "  Upon this ,  the lords present 
stared at one another ,  and took the liberty of asking whom 
she meant  ;  to which she replied ,   "  Whom should I mean ,  
but our cousin of Scotland  !   "  This was on the twenty - third 
of March .  They asked her once again that day ,  after she 
was speechless ,  whether she was still in the same mind? 
She struggled up in bed ,  and joined her hands over her 
head in the form of a crown ,  as the only reply she could 
make .  At three oclock next morning ,  she very quietly 
died ,  in the forty - fifth year of her reign .  

That reign had been a glorious one ,  and is made for ever 
memorable by the distinguished men who nourished in it .  
Apart from the great voyagers ,  statesmen ,  and scholars ,  
whom it produced ,  the names of Bacon ,  Spenser ,  and 
Shakespeare ,  will always be remembered with pride and 
veneration by the civilised world ,  and will always impart 
 ( though with no great reason ,  perhaps )  some portion of their 
lustre to the name of Elizabeth herself .  It was a great reign 
for discovery ,  for commerce ,  and for English enterprise and 
spirit in general .  It was a great reign for the Protestant 
religion and for the Keformation which made England free .  
The Queen was very popular ,  and in her progresses ,  or 
journeys about her dominions ,  was everywhere received 
with the liveliest joy .  I think the truth is ,  that she was 
not half so good as she has been made out ,  and not half so 
bad as she has been made out .  She had her fine qualities ,  
but she was coarse ,  capricious ,  and treacherous ,  and had all 
the faults of an excessively vain young woman long after 
she was an old one .  On the whole ,  she had a great deal too 
much of her father in her ,  to please me .  

Many improvements and luxuries were introduced in the 
course of these five - and - forty years in the general manner 
of living ;  but cock - fighting ,  bull - baiting ,  and bear - baiting ,  
were still the national amusements  ;  and a coach was so 
rarely seen ,  and was such an ugly and cumbersome affair 
when it was seen ,  that even the Queen herself ,  on many 
high occasions ,  rode on horseback on a pillion behind the 
Lord Chancellor 



CHAPTER XXXH 

ENGLAND UNDEK JAMES THE FIRST 

 "  Our cousin of Scotland  "  was ugly ,  awkward ,  and shuffling 
both in mind and person .  His tongue was much too large 
for his mouth ,  his legs were much too weak for his body ,  
and his dull goggle - eyes stared and rolled like an idiots .  He 
was cunning ,  covetous ,  wasteful ,  idle ,  drunken ,  greedy ,  dirty ,  
cowardly ,  a great swearer ,  and the most conceited man on 
earth .  His figure — what is commonly called rickety from 
his birth — j )  resented a most ridiculous appearance ,  dressed 
in thick padded clothes ,  as a safeguard against being stabbed 
 ( of which he lived in continual fear )  ,  of a grass - green colour 
from head to foot ,  with a hunting - horn dangling at his side 
instead of a sword ,  and his hat and feather sticking over one 
eye ,  or hanging on the back of his head ,  as he happened to 
toss it on .  He used to loll on the necks of his favourite 
courtiers ,  and slobber their faces ,  and kiss and pinch their 
cheeks  ;  and the greatest favourite he ever had ,  used to sign 
himself in his letters to his royal master ,  His Majestys 
 " dog and slave ,  "  and used to address his majesty as  " his 
Sowship .  "  His majesty was the worst rider ever seen ,  and 
thought himself the best .  He was one of the most imperti -  
nent talkers  ( in the broadest Scotch )  ever heard ,  and boasted 
of being unanswerable in all manner of argument .  He wrote 
some of the most wearisome treatises ever read — among 
others ,  a book upon witchcraft ,  in which he was a devout 
believer — and thought himself a prodigy of authorship .  He 
thought ,  and wrote ,  and said ,  that a king had a right to make 
and unmake what laws he pleased ,  and ought to be account -  
able to nobody on earth .  This is the plain true character of 
the personage whom the greatest men about the court praised 
and flattered to that degree ,  that I doubt if there be anything 
much more shameful in the annals of human nature .  

He came to the English throne with great ease .  The 



JAMES THE FIRST 329 

miseries of a disputed succession had been felt so long ,  and 
so dreadfully ,  that he was proclaimed within a few hours of 
Elizabeths death ,  and was accepted by the nation ,  even 
without being asked to give any pledge that he would 
govern well ,  or that he would redress crying grievances .  He 
took a month to come from Edinburgh to London  ;  and ,  by 
way of exercising his new power ,  hanged a pickpocket on 
the journey without any trial ,  and knighted everybody he 
could lay hold of .  He made two hundred knights before 
he got to his palace in London ,  and seven hundred before he 
had been in it three months .  He also shovelled sixty - two 
new peers into the House of Lords — and there was a pretty 
large sprinkling of Scotchmen among them ,  you may believe .  
His Sowships prime Minister ,  Cecil  ( for I cannot do better 
than call his majesty what his favourite called him )  ,  was the 
enemy of Sir Walter Kaleigh ,  and also of Sir Walters 
political friend ,  Lord Cobham  ;  and his Sowships first trouble 
was a plot originated by these two ,  and entered into by some 
others ,  with the old object of seizing the King and keeping 
him in imprisonment until he should change his ministers .  
There were Catholic priests in the plot ,  and there were 
Puritan noblemen too  ;  for ,  although the Catholics and 
Puritans were strongly opposed to each other ,  they united at 
this time against his Sowship ,  because they knew that he had 
a design against both ,  after pretending to be friendly to each  ;  
this design being to have only one high and convenient form 
of the Protestant religion ,  which everybody should be bound 
to belong to ,  whether they liked it or not .  This plot was 
mixed up with another ,  which may or may not have had 
some reference to placing on the throne ,  at some time ,  the 
Lady Arabella Stuart  ;  whose misfortune it was ,  to be the 
daughter of the younger brother of his Sowships father ,  but 
who was quite innocent of any part in the scheme .  Sir 
Walter Raleigh was accused on the confession of Lord 
Cobham — a miserable creature ,  who said one thing at one 
time ,  and another thing at another time ,  and could be relied 
upon in nothing The trial of Sir Walter Raleigh lasted 
from eight in the morning until nearly midnight  ;  he defended 
himself with such eloquence ,  genius ,  and spirit against all 
accusations ,  and against the insults of Coke ,  the Attorney -  
General — who ,  according to the custom of the time ,  foully 
abused him — that those who went there detesting the 
prisoner ;  came away admiring him ,  and declaring that any -  
1 .  a a 3 



330 A CHILD S HISTORY OF ENGLAND 

thing so wonderful and so captivating was never heard .  He 
was found guilty ,  nevertheless ,  and sentenced to death .  
Execution was deferred ,  and he was taken to the Tower .  The 
two Catholic priests ,  less fortunate ,  were executed with the 
usual atrocity  ;  and Lord Cobham and two others were 
pardoned on the scaffold .  His Sowship thought it wonder -  
fully knowing in him to surprise the people by pardoning 
these three at the very block  ;  but ,  blundering ,  and bung -  
ling ,  as usual ,  he had very nearly overreached himself .  For ,  
the messenger on horseback who brought the pardon ,  came 
so late ,  that he was pushed to the outside of the crowd ,  and 
was obliged to shout and roar out what he came for .  The 
miserable Cobham did not gain much by being spared that 
day .  He lived ,  both as a prisoner and a beggar ,  utterly 
despised ,  and miserably poor ,  for thirteen years ,  and then 
died in an old outhouse belonging to one of his former 
servants .  

This plot got rid of ,  and Sir Walter Ealeigh safely shut 
up in the Tower ,  his Sowship held a great dispute with the 
Puritans on their presenting a petition to him ,  and had it 
all his own way — not so very wonderful ,  as he would talk 
continually ,  and would not hear anybody else— and filled the 
Bishops with admiration .  It was comfortably settled that 
there was to be only one form of religion ,  and that all men 
were to think exactly alike .  But ,  although this was arranged 
two centuries and a half ago ,  and although the arrangement 
was supported by much fining and imprisonment ,  I do not 
find that it is quite successful ,  even yet .  

His Sowship ,  having that uncommonly high opinion of 
himself as a king ,  had a very low opinion of Parliament as 
a power that audaciously wanted to control him .  When he 
called his first Parliament after he had been king a year ,  he 
accordingly thought he would take pretty high ground with 
them ,  and told them that he commanded them  " as an 
absolute king .  "  The Parliament thought those strong words ,  
and saw the necessity of upholding their authority .  His 
Sowship had three children : Prince Henry ,  Prince Charles ,  
and the Princess Elizabeth .  It would have been well for one 
of these ,  and we shall too soon see which ,  if he had learnt 
a little wisdom concerning Parliaments from his fathers 
obstinacy .  

Now ,  the people still labouring under their old dread of 
the Catholic religion .  ,  this Parliament revived and strength -  



JAMES THE FIRST 33 1 

ened the severe laws against it .  And this so angered Eobekt 
Catesby ,  a restless Catholic gentleman of an old family ,  that 
he formed one of the most desperate and terrible designs ever 
conceived in the mind of man  ;  no less a scheme than the 
Gunpowder Plot .  

His object was ,  when the King ,  lords ,  and commons ,  
should be assembled at the next opening of Parliament ,  to 
blow them up ,  one and all ,  with a great mine of gunpowder .  
The first person to whom he confided this horrible idea was 
Thomas Winter ,  a Worcestershire gentleman who had served 
in the army abroad ,  and had been secretly employed in 
Catholic projects .  While Winter was yet undecided ,  and 
when he had gone over to the Netherlands ,  to learn from 
the Spanish Ambassador there whether there was any hope 
of Catholics being relieved through the intercession of the 
King of Spain with his Sowship ,  he found at Ostend a tall 
dark daring man ,  whom he had known when they were both 
soldiers abroad ,  and whose name was Guido — or Guy — 
Fawkes .  Kesolved to join the plot ,  he proposed it to this 
man ,  knowing him to be the man for any desperate deed ,  
and they two came back to England together .  Here ,  they 
admitted two other conspirators : Thomas Peecy ,  related to 
the Earl of Northumberland ,  and John Wright ,  his brother -  
in - law .  All these met together in a solitary house in the 
open fields which were then near Clements Inn ,  now a 
closely blocked - up part of London  ;  and when they had all 
taken a great oath of secrecy ,  Catesby told the rest what his 
plan was .  They then went up - stairs into a garret ,  and 
received the Sacrament from Father Gerard ,  a Jesuit ,  who 
is said not to have known actually of the Gunpowder Plot ,  
but who ,  I think ,  must have had his suspicions that there 
was something desperate afoot .  

Percy was a Gentleman Pensioner ,  and as he had occasional 
duties to perform about the Court ,  then kept at Whitehall ,  
there would be nothing suspicious in his living at West -  
minster .  So ,  having looked well about him ,  and having 
found a house to let ,  the back of which joined the Parliament 
House ,  he hired it of a person named Ferris ,  for the purpose 
of undermining the wall .  Having got possession of this 
house ,  the conspirators hired another on the Lambeth side of 
the Thames ,  which they used as a storehouse for wood ,  gun -  
powder ,  and other combustible matters .  These were to be 
removed at night  ( and afterwards were removed )  ,  bit by bit ,  



332 A CHILD S HISTORY OF ENGLAND 

to the house at Westminster  ;  and ,  that there might be some 
trusty person to keep watch over the Lambeth stores ,  they 
admitted another conspirator ,  by name Robert Kay ,  a very 
poor Catholic gentleman .  

All these arrangements had been made some months ,  and 
it was a dark wintry December night ,  when the conspirators ,  
who had been in the meantime dispersed to avoid observation ,  
met in the house at Westminster ,  and began to dig .  They 
had laid in a good stock of eatables ,  to avoid going in and 
out ,  and they dug and dug with great ardour .  But ,  the wall 
being tremendously thick ,  and the work very severe ,  they 
took into their plot Christopher Wright ,  a younger brother 
of John Wright ,  that they might have a new pair of hands 
to help .  And Christopher Wright fell to like a fresh man ,  
and they dug and dug by night and by day ,  and Fawkes 
stood sentinel all the time .  And if any mans heart seemed 
to fail him at all ,  Fawkes said ,   "  Gentlemen ,  we have abun -  
dance of powder and shot here ,  and there is no fear of our 
being taken alive ,  even if discovered .  "  The same Fawkes ,  
who ,  in the capacity of sentinel ,  was always prowling about ,  
soon picked up the intelligence that the King had prorogued 
the Parliament again ,  from the seventh of February ,  the day 
first fixed upon ,  until the third of October .  When the con -  
spirators knew this ,  they agreed to separate until after the 
Christmas holidays ,  and to take no notice of each other in the 
meanwhile ,  and never to write letters to one another on any 
account .  So ,  the house in Westminster was shut up again ,  
and I suppose the neighbours thought that those strange -  
looking men who lived there so gloomily ,  and went out so 
seldom ,  were gone away to have a merry Christmas some -  
where .  

It was the beginning of February ,  sixteen hundred and 
five ,  when Catesby met his fellow - conspirators again at this 
Westminster house .  He had now admitted three more  ;  
John Grant ,  a Warwickshire gentleman of a melancholy 
temper ,  who lived in a doleful house near Stratford - upon -  
Avon ,  with a frowning wall all round it ,  and a deep moat  ;  
Kobert Winter ,  eldest brother of Thomas  ;  and Catesbys 
own servant ,  Thomas Bates ,  who ,  Catesby thought ,  had had 
some suspicion of what his master was about .  These three 
bad all suffered more or less for their religion in Elizabeths 
time .  And now ,  they all began to dig again ,  and they dug 
and dug by night and by day .  



JAMES THE FIKST 333 

They found it dismal work alone there ,  underground ,  with 
such a fearful secret on their minds ,  and so many murders 
before them .  They were filled with wild fancies .  Sometimes ,  
they thought they heard a great bell tolling ,  deep down in 
the earth under the Parliament House  ;  sometimes ,  they 
thought they heard low voices muttering about the Gun -  
powder Plot  ;  once in the morning ,  they really did hear a 
great rumbling noise over their heads ,  as they dug and sweated 
in their mine .  Every man stopped and looked aghast at his 
neighbour ,  wondering what had happened ,  when that bold 
prowler ,  Fawkes ,  who had been out to look ,  came in and told 
them that it was only a dealer in coals who had occupied 
a cellar under the Parliament House ,  removing his stock in 
trade to some other place .  Upon this ,  the conspirators ,  who 
with all their digging and digging had not yet dug through 
the tremendously thick wall ,  changed their plan  ;  hired that 
cellar ,  which was directly under the House of Lords  ;  put six -  
and - thirty barrels of gunpowder in it ,  and covered them over 
with fagots and coals .  Then they all dispersed again till 
September ,  when the following new conspirators were 
admitted  ;  Sir Edward Baynham ,  of Gloucestershire  ;  Sir 
Everard Digby ,  of Rutlandshire  ;  Ambrose Rookwood ,  of 
Suffolk  ;  Francis Tresham ,  of Northamptonshire .  Most of 
these wei*e rich ,  and were to assist the plot ,  some with money 
and some with horses on which the conspirators were to ride 
through the country and rouse the Catholics after the Parlia -  
ment should be blown into air .  

Parliament being again prorogued from the third of 
October to the fifth of November ,  and the conspirators 
being uneasy lest their design should have been found out ,  
Thomas Winter said he would go up into the House of 
Lords on the day of the prorogation ,  and see how matters 
looked .  Nothing could be better .  The unconscious Com -  
missioners were walking about and talking to one another ,  
just over the six - and - thirty barrels of gunpowder .  He came 
back and told the rest so ,  and they went on with their 
preparations .  They hired a ship ,  and kept it ready in the 
Thames ,  in which Fawkes was to sail for Flanders after 
firing with a slow match the train that was to explode the 
powder .  A number of Catholic gentlemen not in the secret ,  
were invited ,  on pretence of a hunting party ,  to meet Sir 
Everard Digby at Dunchurch on the fatal day ,  that they 
might be ready to act together .  And now all was ready .  



334 A CHILD S HISTORY OF ENGLAND 

But ,  now ,  the great wickedness and danger which had 
been all along at the bottom of this wicked plot ,  began to 
show itself .  As the fifth of November drew near ,  most of 
the conspirators ,  remembering that they had friends and 
relations who would be in the House of Lords that day ,  
felt some natural relenting ,  and a wish to warn them to 
keep away .  They were not much comforted by Catesbys 
declaring that in such a cause he would blow up his own son .  
Lord Mounteagle ,  Treshams brother - in - law ,  was certain 
to be in the house  ;  and when Tresham found that he could 
not prevail upon the rest to devise any means of sparing 
their friends ,  he wrote a mysterious letter to this lord and 
left it at his lodging in the dusk ,  urging him to keep away 
from the opening of Parliament ,   "  since God and man had 
concurred to punish the wickedness of the times .  "  It con -  
tained the words  " that the Parliament should receive 
a terrible blow ,  and yet should not see who hurt them .  "  
And it added ,   "  the danger is past ,  as soon as you have 
burnt the letter .  "  

The ministers and couitiers made out that his Sowship .  
by a direct miracle from Heaven ,  found out what this letter 
meant .  The truth is ,  that they were not long  ( as few men 
would be )  in finding it out for themselves  ;  and it was 
decided to let the conspirators alone ,  until the very day 
before the opening of Parliament .  That the conspirators 
had their fears ,  is certain  ;  for ,  Tresham himself said before 
them all .  that they were every one dead men  ;  and ,  although 
even he did not take flight ,  there is reason to suppose that 
he had warned other persons besides Lord Mounteagle .  
However ,  they were all firm  ;  and Fawkes .  who was a man 
of iron ,  went down every day and night to keep watch in 
the cellar as usual .  He was there about two in the after -  
noon of the fourth ,  when the Lord Chamberlain and Lord 
Mounteagle threw open the door and looked in .   " Who 
are you ,  friend ?  "  said they .   "  Why ,  "  said Fawkes .   "  I am 
Mr .  Percys servant ,  and am looking after his store of fuel 
here .  "   "  Your master has laid in a pretty good store ,  "  they 
returned ,  and shut the door ,  and went away .  Fawkes .  upon 
this ,  posted off to the other conspirators to tell them all was 
quiet ,  and went back and shut himself up in the dark black 
cellar again ,  where he heard the bell go twelve oclock and 
usher in the fifth of November .  About two hours after -  
wards ,  he slowly opened the door ,  and came out to look 



JAMES THE FIRST 335 

about him ,  in his old prowling way .  He was instantly 
seized and bound ,  by a party of soldiers under Sir Thomas 
Knevett .  He had a watch upon him ,  some touchwood ,  
some tinder ,  some slow matches  ;  and there was a dark 
lantern with a candle in it ,  lighted ,  behind the door .  He 
had his boots and spurs on — to ride to the ship ,  I suppose 
— and it was well for the soldiers that they took him so 
suddenly .  If they had left him but a moments time to 
light a match ,  he certainly would have tossed it in among 
the powder ,  and blown up himself and them .  

They took him to the Kings bed - chamber first of all ,  and 
there the King  ( causing him to be held very tight ,  and 
keeping a good way off )  ,  asked him how he could have the 
heart to intend to destroy so many innocent people ? 
 "  Because ,  "  said Guy Fawkes ,   "  desperate diseases need 
desperate remedies .  "  To a little Scotch favourite ,  with a 
face like a terrier ,  who asked him  ( with no particular 
wisdom )  why he had collected so much gunpowder ,  lie 
replied ,  because he had meant to blow Scotchmen back to 
Scotland ,  and it would take a deal of powder to do that .  
Next day he was carried to the Tower ,  but would make no 
confession .  Even after being horribly tortured ,  he con -  
fessed nothing that the Government did not already know  ;  
though he must have been in a fearful state — as his signa -  
ture ,  still preserved ,  in contrast with his natural hand -  
writing before he was put upon the dreadful rack ,  most 
frightfully shows .  Bates ,  a very different man ,  soon said 
the Jesuits had had to do with the plot ,  and probably ,  
under the torture ,  would as readily have said anything .  
Tresham ,  taken and put in the Tower too ,  made confessions 
and unmade them ,  and died of an illness that was heavy 
upon him .  Rookwood ,  who had stationed relays of his own 
horses all the way to Dunchurch ,  did not mount to escape 
until the middle of the day ,  when the news of the plot was 
all over London .  On the road ,  he came up with the two 
Wrights ,  Catesby ,  and Percy  ;  and they all galloped together 
into Northamptonshire .  Thence to Dunchurch ,  where they 
found the proposed party assembled .  Finding ,  however ,  
that there had been a plot ,  and that it had been discovered ,  
the party disappeared in the course of the night ,  and left 
them alone with Sir Everard Digby .  Away they all rode 
again ,  through Warwickshire and Worcestershire ,  to a house 
called Holbeach ,  on the borders of Staffordshire .  They tried 



33^ A CHILDS HISTORY OF ENGLAND 

to raise the Catholics on their way ,  but were indignantly 
driven off by them .  All this time they were hotly pursued 
by the sheriff of Worcester ,  and a fast increasing concourse 
of riders .  At last ,  resolving to defend themselves at Hol -  
beach ,  they shut themselves up iu the house ,  and put some 
wet powder before the fire to dry .  But it blew up .  and 
Catesby was singed and blackened ,  and almost killed ,  and 
some of the others were sadly hurt .  Still ,  knowing that 
they must die ,  they resolved to die there ,  and with only 
their swords in their hands appeared at the windows to be 
shot at by the sheriff and his assistants .  Catesby said to 
Thomas Winter ,  after Thomas had been hit in the right 
arm which dropped powerless by his side .   "  Stand by me ,  
Tom ,  and we will die together  !   "  —which they did ,   " being 
shot through the body by two bullets from one gun .  John 
Wright ,  and Christopher Wright ,  and Percy ,  were also shot .  
Eookwood and Digby were taken : the former with a broken 
arm and a wound in his body too .  

It was the fifteenth of January ,  before the trial of Guy 
Fawkes ,  and such of the other conspirators as were left 
alive ,  came on .  They were all found guilty ,  all hanged ,  
drawn ,  and quartered : some ,  in St .  Pauls Churchyard ,  on 
the top of Ludgate - hill  ;  some ,  before the Parliament House .  
A Jesuit priest ,  named Henry Garnet ,  to whom the dread -  
ful design was said to have been communicated ,  was taken 
and tried  ;  and two of his servants ,  as well as a poor priest 
who was taken with him ,  were tortured without mercy .  He 
himself was not tortured ,  but was surrounded in the Tower 
by tamperers and traitors ,  and so was made unfairly to 
convict himself out of his own mouth .  He said ,  upon his 
trial ,  that he had done all he could to prevent the deed ,  and 
that he could not make public what had been told him in 
confession — though I am afraid he knew of the plot in other 
ways .  He was found guilty and executed ,  after a manful 
defence ,  and the Catholic Church made a saint of him  ;  
some rich and powerful persons ,  who had had nothing to 
do with the project ,  were fined and imprisoned for it by the 
Star Chamber  ;  the Catholics ,  in general ,  who had recoiled 
with horror from the idea of the infernal contrivance ,  were 
unjustly put under more severe laws than before  ;  and this 
was the end of the Gunpowder Plot .  



JAMES THE FIRST 337 



Second Part .  



His Sowship would pretty willingly ,  I think ,  have blown 
the House of Commons into the air himself ;  for ,  his dread 
and jealousy of it knew no bounds all through his reign .  
When he was hard pressed for money he was obliged to 
order it to meet ,  as he could get no money without it  ;  and 
when it asked him first to abolish some of the monopolies 
in necessaries of life which were a great grievance to the 
people ,  and to redress other public wrongs ,  he flew into 
a rage and got rid of it again .  At one time he wanted it 
to consent to the Union of England with Scotland ,  and 
quarrelled about that .  At another time it wanted him to 
put down a most infamous Church abuse ,  called the High 
Commission Court ,  and he quarrelled with it about that .  
At another time it entreated him not to be quite so fond of 
his archbishops and bishops who made speeches in his 
praise too awful to be related ,  but to have some little 
consideration for the poor Puritan clergy who were per -  
secuted for preaching in their own way ,  and not according 
to the archbishops and bishops  ;  and they quarrelled about 
that .  In short ,  what with hating the House of Commons ,  
and pretending not to hate it  ;  and what with now sending 
some of its members who opposed him ,  to Newgate or to 
the Tower ,  and now telling the rest that they must not 
presume to make speeches about the public affairs which 
could not possibly concern them  ;  and what with cajoling ,  
and bullying ,  and fighting ,  and being frightened  ;  the House 
of Commons was the plague of his Sowships existence .  It 
was pretty firm ,  however ,  in maintaining its rights ,  and 
insisting that the Parliament should make the laws ,  and not 
the King by his own single proclamations  ( which he tried 
hard to do )   ;  and his Sowship was so often distressed for 
money ,  in consequence ,  that he sold every sort of title and 
public office as if they were merchandise ,  and even invented 
a new dignity called a Baronetcy ,  which anybody could buy 
for a thousand pounds .  

These disputes with his Parliaments ,  and his hunting ,  and 
his drinking ,  and his lying in bed — for he was a great 
sluggard — occupied his Sowship pretty well .  The rest of 
his time he chiefly passed in hugging and slobbering his 
favourites .  The first of these was Sir Philip Herbert ,  who 
had no knowledge whatever ,  except of dogs ,  and horses ,  and 



338 A CHILDS HISTORY OF ENGLAND 

hunting ,  but whom he soon made Earl of Montgomery .  
The next ,  and a much more famous one ,  was Eobert Caer ,  
or Ker  ( for it is not certain which was his right name )  ,  who 
came from the Border country ,  and whom he soon made 
Viscount Eochester ,  and afterwards ,  Earl of Somerset .  
The way in which his Sowship doted on this handsome 
young man ,  is even more odious to think of ,  than the way 
in which the really great men of England condescended to 
bow down before him .  The favourites great friend was 
a certain Sir Thomas Overbltry ,  who wrote his love - letters 
for him ,  and assisted him in the duties of his many high 
places ,  which his own ignorance prevented him from dis -  
charging .  But this same Sir Thomas having just manhood 
enough to dissuade the favourite from a wicked marriage 
with the beautiful Countess of Essex ,  who was to get 
a divorce from her husband for the purpose ,  the said 
Countess ,  in her rage ,  got Sir Thomas put into the Tower ,  
and there poisoned him .  Then the favourite and this bad 
woman were publicly married by the Kings pet bishop ,  
with as much to - do and rejoicing ,  as if he had been the 
best man ,  and she the best woman ,  upon the face of the 
earth .  

But ,  after a longer sunshine than might have been 
expected — of seven years or so ,  that is to say — another 
handsome young man started up and eclipsed the Earl of 
Somerset .  This was George Villiers ,  the youngest son 
of a Leicestershire gentleman : who came to Court with all 
the Paris fashions on him ,  and could dance as well as the 
best mountebank that ever was seen .  He soon danced 
himself into the good graces of his Sowship ,  and danced the 
other favourite out of favour .  Then ,  it was all at once dis -  
covered that the Earl and Countess of Somerset had not 
deserved all those great promotions and mighty rejoicings ,  
and they were separately tried for the murder of Sir Thomas 
Overbury ,  and for other crimes .  But ,  the King was so 
afraid of his late favourites publicly telling some disgraceful 
things he knew of him — which he darkly threatened to do 
— that he was even examined with two men standing ,  one 
on either side of him .  each with a cloak in his hand ,  ready 
to throw it over his head and stop his mouth if he should 
break out with what he had it in his power to tell .  So ,  
a very lame affair was purposely made of the trial ,  and his 
punishment was an allowance of four thousand pounds a year 



JAMES THE FIRST 339 

in retirement ,  while the Countess was pardoned ,  and allowed 
to pass into retirement too .  They hated one another by 
this time ,  and lived to revile and torment each other some 
years .  

While these events were in progress ,  and while his Sow -  
ship was making such an exhibition of himself ,  from day to 
day and from year to year ,  as is not often seen in any sty ,  
three remarkable deaths took place in England .  The first 
was that of the Minister ,  Eobert Cecil ,  Earl of Salisbury ,  who 
was past sixty ,  and had never been strong ,  being deformed 
from his birth .  He said at last that he had no wish to live ;  
and no Minister need have had ,  with his experience of the 
meanness and wickedness of those disgraceful times .  The 
second was that of the Lady Arabella Stuart ,  who alarmed 
his Sowship mightily ,  by privately marrying William 
Seymour ,  son of Lord Beauchamp ,  who was a descendant 
of King Henry the Seventh ,  and who ,  his Sowship thought ,  
might consequently increase and strengthen any claim she 
might one day set up to the throne .  She was separated from 
her husband  ( who was put in the Tower )  and thrust into 
a boat to be confined at Durham .  She escaped in a mans 
dress to get away in a French ship from Gravesend to Fiance ,  
but unhappily missed her husband ,  who had escaped too ,  and 
was soon taken .  She went raving mad in the miserable 
Tower ,  and died there after four years .  The last ,  and the 
most important of these three deaths ,  was that of Prince 
Henry ,  the heir to the throne ,  in the nineteenth year of his 
age .  He was a promising young prince ,  and greatly liked  ;  
a quiet well - conducted youth ,  of whom two very good tilings 
are known: first ,  that his father was jealous of him secondly ,  
that he was the friend of Sir Walter Kaleigh ,  languishing 
through all those years in the Tower ,  and often said that no 
man but his father would keep such a bird in such a cage .  
On the occasion of the preparations for the marriage of his 
sister the Princess Elizabeth with a foreign prince  ( and an 
unhappy marriage it turned out )  ,  he came from Eichmond ,  
where he had been very ill ,  to greet his new brother - in - law .  
at the palace at Whitehall .  There he played a great game 
at tennis ,  in his shirt ,  though it was very cold weather ,  and 
was seized with an alarming illness ,  and died within a fort -  
night of a putrid fever .  For this young prince Sir Walter 
Kaleigh wrote ,  in his prison in the Tower ,  the beginning of 
a History of the World : a wonderful instance how little his 



340 A CHILD S HISTORY OF ENGLAND 

Sowship could do to confine a great mans mind ,  however 
long he might imprison his body .  

And this mention of Sir Walter Raleigh ,  who had many 
faults ,  but who never showed so many merits as in trouble 
and adversity ,  may bring me at once to the end of his sad 
story .  After an imprisonment in the Tower of twelve long 
years ,  he proposed to resume those old sea voyages of his ,  
and to go to South America in search of gold .  His Sowship ,  
divided between his wish to be on good terms with the 
Spaniards through whose territory Sir Walter must pass 
 ( he had long had an idea of marrying Prince Henry to 
a Spanish Princess )  ,  and his avaricious eagerness to get 
hold of the gold ,  did not know what to do .  But ,  in the end ,  
he set Sir Walter free ,  taking securities for his return  ;  and 
Sir Walter fitted out an expedition at his own cost ,  and ,  on 
the twenty - eighth of March ,  one thousand six hundred and 
seventeen ,  sailed away in command of one of its ships ,  
which he ominously called the Destiny .  The expedition 
failed  ;  the common men ,  not finding the gold they had 
expected ,  mutinied  ;  a quarrel broke out between Sir Walter 
and the Spaniards ,  who hated him for old successes of his 
against them  ;  and he took and burnt a little town called 
Saint Thomas .  For this he was denounced to his Sowship 
by the Spanish Ambassador as a pirate  ;  and returning 
almost broken - hearted ,  with his hopes and fortunes shattered ,  
his company of friends dispersed ,  and his brave son  ( who 
had been one of them )  killed ,  he was taken — through the 
treachery of Sir Lewis Stukely ,  his near relation ,  a scoun -  
drel and a Vice - Admiral — and was once again immured in 
his prison - home of so many years .  

His Sowship being mightily disappointed in not getting 
any gold .  Sir Walter Raleigh was tried as unfairly ,  and with 
as many lies and evasions as the judges and law officers and 
every other authority in Church and State habitually practised 
Tinder such a King .  After a great deal of prevarication on 
all parts but his own ,  it was declared that he must die under 
his former sentence ,  now fifteen years old .  So ,  on the 
twenty - eighth of October ,  one thousand six hundred and 
eighteen ,   " he was shut up in the Gate House at Westminster 
to pass his last night on earth ,  and there he took leave of his 
good and faithful lady ,  who was worthy to have lived in 
better days .  At eight oclock next morning ,  after a cheerful 
breakfast ,  and a pipe ,  and a cup of good wine ,  he was taken 



JAMES THE FIRST 34 1 

to Old Palace Yard in Westminster ,  where the scaffold was 
set up ,  and where so many people of high degree were as -  
sembled to see him die ,  that it was a matter of some difficulty 
to get him through the crowd .  He behaved most nobly ,  
but if anything lay heavy on his mind ,  it was that Earl of 
Essex ,  whose head he had seen roll off ;  and he solemnly 
said that he had had no hand in bringing him to the block ,  
and that he had shed tears for him when he died .  As the 
morning was very cold ,  the Sheriff said ,  would he come 
down to a fire for a little space ,  and warm himself? But 
Sir Walter thanked him ,  and said no ,  he would rather it 
were clone at once ,  for he was ill of fever and ague ,  and in 
another quarter of an hour his shaking fit would come upon 
him if he were still alive ,  and his enemies might then 
suppose that he trembled for fear .  With that ,  he kneeled 
and made a very beautiful and Christian prayer .  Before he 
laid his head upon the block he felt the edge of the axe ,  and 
said ,  with a smile upon his face ,  that it was a sharp medicine ,  
but would cure the worst disease .  When he was bent down 
ready for death ,  he said to the executioner ,  finding that he 
hesitated ,   " What dost thou fear? Strike ,  man !  "  So ,  the 
axe came down and struck his head off ,  in the sixty - sixth 
year of his age .  

The new favourite got on fast .  He was made a viscount ,  
he Avas made Duke of Buckingham ,  he was made a marquis ,  
he was made Master of the Horse ,  he was made Lord High 
Admiral — and the Chief Commander of the gallant English 
forces that had dispersed the Spanish Armada ,  was displaced 
to make room for him .  He had the whole kingdom at his 
disposal ,  and his mother sold all the profits and honours of 
the State ,  as if she had kept a shop .  He blazed all over 
with diamonds and other precious stones ,  from his hatband 
and his earrings to his shoes .  Yet he was an ignorant 
presumptuous swaggering compound of knave and fool ,  with 
nothing but his beauty and his dancing to recommend him .  
This is the gentleman who called himself his Majestys dog 
and slave ,  and called his Majesty Your Sowship .  His Sow -  
ship called him Steenie  ;  it is supposed ,  because that was 
a nickname for Stephen ,  and because St .  Stephen was 
generally represented in pictures as a handsome saint .  

His Sowship was driven sometimes to his wits - end by his 
trimming between the general dislike of the Catholic religion 
at home ,  and his desire to wheedle and flatter it abroad ,  as 



342 A CHILD S HISTORY OF ENGLAND 

his only means of getting a rich princess for his sons wife : 
a part of whose fortune he might cram into his greasy pockets .  
Prince Charles— or as his Sowship called him ,  Baby Charles 
—being now Prixce of Wales ,  the old project of a marriage 
with the Spanish Kings daughter had been revived for him ;  
and as she could not marry a Protestant without leave from 
the Pope ,  his Sowship himself secretly and meanly wrote 
to his Infallibility ,  asking for it .  The negotiation for this 
Spanish marriage takes up a larger space in great books ,  
than you can imagine ,  but the upshot of it all is ,  that when 
it had been held off by the Spanish Court for a long time ,  
Baby Charles and Steenie set off in disguise as Mr .  Thomas 
Smith and Mr .  John Smith ,  to see the Spanish Princess  ;  
that Baby Charles pretended to be desperately in love with 
her ,  and jumped off walls to look at her ,  and made a con -  
siderable fool of himself in a good many ways  ;  that she was 
called Princess of Wales ,  and that the whole Spanish Court 
believed Baby Charles to be all but dying for her sake ,  as he 
expressly told them he was  ;  that Baby Charles and Steenie 
came back to England ,  and were received with as much 
rapture as if they had been a blessing to it  ;  that Baby 
Charles had actually fallen in love with Henrietta Maria ,  
the French Kings sister ,  whom he had seen in Paris : that 
he thought it a wonderfully fine and princely thing to have 
deceived the Spaniards ,  all through  ;  and that he openly 
said ,  with a chuckle ,  as soon as he was safe and sound at 
home again ,  that the Spaniards were great fools to have 
believed him .  

Like most dishonest men ,  the Prince and the favourite 
complained that the people whom they had deluded were 
dishonest .  They made such misrepresentations of the 
treachery of the Spaniards in this business of the Spanish 
match ,  that the English nation became eager for a war with 
them .  Although the gravest Spaniards laughed at the idea 
of his Sowship in a warlike attitude ,  the Parliament granted 
money for the beginning of hostilities ,  and the treaties with 
Spain were publicly declared to be at an end .  The Spanish 
ambassador in London — probably with the help of the fallen 
favourite ,  the Earl of Somerset — being unable to obtain 
speech with his Sowship ,  slipped a paper into his hand ,  
declaring that he was a prisoner in his own house ,  and was 
entirely governed by Buckingham and his creatures .  The 
first effect of this letter was that his Sowship began to cry 



JAMES THE FIRST 343 

and whine ,  and took Baby Charles away from Steenie ,  and 
went down to Windsor ,  gabbling all sorts of nonsense .  The 
end of it was that his Sowship hugged his dog and slave ,  
and said he was quite satisfied .  

He had given the Prince and the favourite almost un -  
limited power to settle anything with the Pope as to the 
Spanish marriage  ;  and he now ,  with a view to the French 
one ,  signed a treaty that all Eoman Catholics in England 
should exercise their religion freely ,  and should never be 
required to take any oath contrary thereto .  In return for 
this ,  and for other concessions much less to be defended ,  
Henrietta Maria was to become the Princes wife ,  and was 
to bring him a fortune of eight hundred thousand crowns .  

His Sowships eyes were getting red with eagerly looking 
for the money ,  when the end of a gluttonous life came upon 
him  ;  and ,  after a fortnights illness ,  on Sunday the twenty -  
seventh of March ,  one thousand six hundred and twenty - five ,  
he died .  He had reigned twenty - two years ,  and was fifty -  
nine years old .  I know of nothing more abominable in 
history than the adulation that was lavished on this King ,  
and the vice and corruption that such a barefaced habit of 
lying produced in his court .  It is much to be doubted 
whether one man of honour ,  and not utterly self - disgraced ,  
kept his place near James the First .  Lord Bacon ,  that able 
and wise philosopher ,  as the First Judge in the Kingdom in 
this reign ,  became a public spectacle of dishonesty and 
corruption  ;  and in his base flattery of his Sowship ,  and in 
his crawling servility to his dog and slave ,  disgraced himself 
even more .  But ,  a creature like his Sowship set upon a 
throne is like the Plague ,  and everybody receives infection 
from him .  



CHAPTER XXXIII 

ENGLAND UNDER CHARLES THE FIRST 

Baby Charles became King Charles the First ,  in the 
twenty - fifth year of his age .  Unlike his father ,  he was 
usually amiable in his private character ,  and grave and 
dignified in his bearing  ;  but ,  like his father ,  he had mon -  
strously exaggerated notions of the rights of a king ,  and was 
evasive ,  and not to be trusted .  If his word could have been 
relied upon ,  his history might have had a different end .  

His first care was to send over that insolent upstart ,  
Buckingham ,  to bring Henrietta Maria from Paris to be his 
Queen  ;  upon which occasion Buckingham — with his usual 
audacity — made love to the young Queen of Austria ,  and was 
very indignant indeed with Cardinal Richelieu ,  the French 
Minister ,  for thwarting his intentions .  The English people 
were very well disposed to like their new Queen ,  and to 
receive her with great favour when she came among them as 
a stranger .  But ,  she held the Protestant religion in great 
dislike ,  and brought over a crowd of unpleasant priests ,  who 
made her do some very ridiculous things ,  and forced them -  
selves upon the public notice in many disagreeable ways .  
Hence ,  the people soon came to dislike her ,  and she soon 
came to dislike them  ;  and she did so much all through this 
reign in setting the King  ( who was dotingly fond of her )  
against his subjects ,  that it would have been better for him 
if she had never been born .  

Now ,  you are to understand that King Charles the First — 
of his own determination to be a high and mighty King not 
to be called to account by anybody ,  and urged on by his 
Queen besides— deliberately set himself to put his Parlia -  
ment down and to put himself up .  You are also to under -  
stand ,  that even in pursuit of this wrong idea  ( enough in 
itself to have ruined any king )  he never took a straight 
course ,  but always took a crooked one .  



CHARLES THE FIKST 345 

He was  " bent upon war with Spain ,  though neither the 
House of Commons nor the people were quite clear as to 
the justice of that war ,  now that they began to think a little 
more about the story of the Spanish match .  But the King 
rushed into it hotly ,  raised money by illegal means to meet 
its expenses ,  and encountered a miserable failure at Cadiz ,  in 
the very first year of his reign .  An expedition to Cadiz had 
been made in the hope of plunder ,  but as it was not suc -  
cessful ,  it was necessary to get a grant of money from the 
Parliament  ;  and when they met ,  in no very complying 
humour ,  the King told them ,   "  to make haste to let him 
have it ,  or it would be the worse for themselves .  "  Not put 
in a more complying humour by this ,  they impeached the 
Kings favourite ,  the Duke of Buckingham ,  as the cause 
 ( which he undoubtedly was )  of many great public grievances 
and wrongs .  The King ,  to save him ,  dissolved the Parlia -  
ment without getting the money he wanted  ;  and when 
the Lords implored him to consider and grant a little delay ,  
he replied ,   "  No ,  not one minute .  "  He then began to raise 
money for himself by the following means among others .  

He levied certain duties called tonnage and poundage 
which had not been granted by the Parliament ,  and could 
lawfully be levied by no other power  ;  he called upon the 
seaport towns to furnish ,  and to pay all the cost for three 
months of ,  a fleet of armed ships  ;  and he required the 
people to unite in lending him large sums of money ,  the 
repayment of which was very doubtful .  If the poor people 
refused ,  they were pressed as soldiers or sailors  ;  if the 
gentiy refused ,  they were sent to prison .  Five gentlemen ,  
named Sir Thomas Darnel ,  John Corbet ,  Walter Earl ,  
John Heveningham ,  and Everard Hampden ,  for refusing 
were taken up by a warrant of the Kings privy council ,  
and were sent to prison without any cause but the Kings 
pleasure being stated for their imprisonment .  Then the 
question came to be solemnly tried ,  whether this was not 
a violation of Magna Charta ,  and an encroachment by the 
King on the highest rights of the English people .  His 
lawyers contended No ,  because to encroach upon the rights 
of the English people would be to do wrong ,  and the King 
coidd do no wrong .  The accommodating judges decided in 
favour of this wicked nonsense  ;  and here was a fatal division 
between the King and the people .  

For all this ,  it became necessary to call another Parliament .  



346 A CHILDS HISTORY OF ENGLAND 

The people ,  sensible of the danger in which their liberties 
were ,  chose for it those who were best known for their 
determined opposition to the King  ;  but still the King ,  
quite blinded by his determination to carry everything 
before him ,  addressed them when they met ,  in a contemp -  
tuous manner ,  and just told them in so many words that he 
had only called them together because he wanted money .  
The Parliament ,  strong enough and resolute enough to know 
that they would lower his tone ,  cared little for what he said ,  
and laid before him one of the great documents of history ,  
which is called the Petition of Right ,  requiring that the 
free men of England should no longer be called upon to 
lend the King money ,  and should no longer be pressed or 
imprisoned for refusing to do so  ;  further ,  that the free men 
of England should no longer be seized by the Kings special 
mandate or warrant ,  it being contrary to their rights and 
liberties and the laws of their country .  At first the King -  
returned an answer to this petition ,  in which he tried to 
shirk it altogether  ;  but ,  the House of Commons then show -  
ing their determination to go on with the impeachment of 
Buckingham ,  the King in alarm returned an answer ,  giving 
his consent to all that was required of him .  He not only 
afterwards depai*ted from his word and honour on these 
points ,  over and over again ,  but ,  at this very time ,  he did 
the mean and dissembling act of publishing his first answer 
and not his second — merely that the people might suppose 
that the Parliament had not got the better of him .  

That pestilent Buckingham ,  to gratify his own wounded 
vanity ,  had by this time involved the country in war with 
France ,  as well as with Spain .  For such miserable causes 
and such miserable creatures are wars sometimes made  !  
But he was destined to do little more mischief in this world .  
One morning ,  as he was going out of his house to his 
carriage ,  he turned to speak to a certain Colonel Fryek who 
was with him  ;  and he was violently stabbed with a knife ,  
which the murderer left sticking in his heart .  This happened 
in his hall .  He had had angry words up - stairs ,  just before ,  
with some French gentlemen ,  who were immediately sus -  
pected by his servants ,  and had a close escape from being 
set upon and killed .  In the midst of the noise ,  the real 
murderer ,  who had gone to the kitchen and might easily 
have got away ,  drew his sword and cried out ,   " I am the 
man  !   "  His name was John Felton ,  a Protestant and 



CHARLES THE FIRST 347 

a retired officer in the army .  He said he had had no per -  
sonal ill - will to the Duke ,  but had killed him as a curse to 
the country .  He had aimed his blow well ,  for Buckingham 
had only had time to cry out ,   "  Villain  !   "  and then he 
drew out the knife ,  fell against a table ,  and died .  

The council made a mighty business of examining John 
Felton about this murder ,  though it was a plain case enough ,  
one would think .  He had come seventy miles to do it ,  he 
told them ,  and he did it for the reason he had declared  ;  if 
they put him upon the rack ,  as that noble Marquis of 
Dokset whom he saw before him ,  had the goodness to 
threaten ,  he gave that marquis warning ,  that he would 
accuse Mm as his accomplice  !  The King was unpleasantly 
anxious to have him racked ,  nevertheless  ;  but as the 
judges now found out that torture was contrary to the law 
of England — it is a pity they did not make the discovery 
a little sooner — John Felton was simply executed for the 
murder he had done .  A murder it undoubtedly was ,  and 
not in the least to be defended : though he had freed 
England from one of the most profligate ,  contemptible ,  and 
base court favourites to whom it has ever yielded .  

A very different man now arose .  This was Sir Thomas 
Wentworth ,  a Yorkshire gentleman ,  who had sat in Parlia -  
ment for a long time ,  and who had favoured arbitrary and 
haughty principles ,  but who had gone over to the peoples 
side on receiving offence from Buckingham .  The King ,  
much wanting such a man -  — for ,  besides being naturally 
favourable to the Kings cause ,  he had great abilities — made 
him first a Baron ,  and then a Viscount ,  and gave him high 
employment ,  and won him most completely .  

A Parliament ,  however ,  was still in existence ,  and was 
not to be won .  On the twentieth of January ,  one thousand 
six hundred and twenty - nine ,  Sir John Eliot ,  a great man 
who had been active in the Petition of Bight ,  brought for -  
ward other strong resolutions against the Kings chief instru -  
ments ,  and called upon the Speaker to put them to the vote .  
To this the Speaker answered ,   " he was commanded other -  
wise by the King ,  "  and got up to leave the chair — which ,  
according to the rules of the House of Commons would 
have obliged it to adjourn without doing anything more — 
when two members ,  named Mr .  Hollis and Mr .  Valentine ,  
held him down .  A scene of great confusion arose among 
the members  ;  and while many swords were drawn and 



348 A CHILDS HISTORY OF ENGLAND 

flashing about ,  the King ,  who was kept informed of all that 
was going on ,  told the captain of his guard to go down to 
the House and force the doors .  The resolutions were by 
that time ,  however ,  voted ,  and the House adjourned .  Sir 
John Eliot and those two members who had held the 
Speaker down ,  were quickly summoned before the council .  
As they claimed it to be their privilege not to answer out 
of Parliament for anything they had said in it ,  they were 
committed to the Tower .  The King then went down and 
dissolved the Parliament ,  in a speech wherein he made 
mention of these gentlemen as  " Vipers "  — which did not 
do him much good that ever I have heard of .  

As they refused to gain their liberty by saying they were 
sorry for what they had done ,  the King ,  always remarkably 
unforgiving ,  never overlooked their offence .  When they 
demanded to be brought up before the court of Kings Bench ,  
he even resorted to the meanness of having them moved 
about from prison to prison ,  so that the writs issued for 
that purpose should not legally find them .  At last they 
came before the court and were sentenced to heavy fines ,  
and to be imprisoned during the Kings pleasure .  When 
Sir John Eliots health had quite given way ,  and he so 
longed for change of air and scene as to petition for his 
release ,  the King sent back the answer  ( worthy of his 
Sowship himself )  that the petition was not humble enough .  
When he sent another petition by his young son ,  in which 
he pathetically offered to go back to prison when his health 
was restored ,  if he might be released for its recovery ,  the 
King still disregarded it .  When he died in the Tower ,  and 
his children petitioned to be allowed to take his body down 
to Cornwall ,  there to lay it among the ashes of his fore -  
fathers ,  the King returned for answer ,   "  Let Sir John Eliots 
body be buried in the church of that parish where he died .  "  
All this was like a very little King indeed ,  I think .  

And now ,  for twelve long years ,  steadily pursuing his 
design of setting himself up and putting the people down ,  
the King called no Parliament  ;  but ruled without one .  If 
twelve thousand volumes were written in his praise  ( as a 
good many have been )  it would still remain a fact ,  impossible 
to be denied ,  that for twelve years King Charles the First 
reigned in England unlawfully and despotically ,  seized upon 
his subjects goods and money at his pleasure ,  and punished 
according toliis unbridled will all who ventured to oppose 



CHARLES THE FIRST 349 

him .  It is a fashion with some people to think that this 
Kings career was cut short  ;  but I must say myself that 
I think he ran a pretty long one .  

William Laud ,  Archbishop of Canterbury ,  was the Kings 
right - hand man in the religious part of the putting down of 
the peoples liberties .  Laud ,  who was a sincere man .  of large 
learning but small sense — for the two things sometimes go 
together in very different quantities — though a Protestant ,  
held opinions so near those of the Catholics ,  that the Pope 
wanted to make a Cardinal of him ,  if he would have accepted 
that favour He looked upon vows ,  robes ,  lighted candles ,  
images ,  and so forth ,  as amazingly important in religious 
ceremonies  ;  and he brought in an immensity of bowing and 
candle - snuffing .  He also regarded archbishops and bishops 
as a sort of miraculous persons ,  and was inveterate in the 
last degree against any who thought otherwise .  Accordingly ,  
he offered up thanks to Heaven ,  and was in a state of much 
pious pleasure ,  when a Scotch clergyman ,  named Leighton ,  
was pilloried ,  whipped ,  branded in the cheek ,  and had one 
of his ears cut off and one of his nostrils slit ,  for calling 
bishops trumpery and the inventions of men .  He originated 
on a Sunday morning the prosecution of  " William Peynne ,  
a barrister who was of similar opinions ,  and who was fined 
a thousand pounds : who was pilloried  ;  who had his ears 
cut off on two occasions — one ear at a time — and who was 
imprisoned for life .  He highly approved of the punishment 
of Doctor Bastwick ,  a physician  ;  who was also fined a 
thousand pounds  ;  and who afterwards had his ears cut off ,  
and was imprisoned for life .  These were gentle methods 
of persuasion ,  some will tell you : I think ,  they were rather 
calculated to be alarming to the people .  

In the money part of the putting down of the peoples 
liberties ,  the King was equally gentle ,  as some will tell 
you : as I think ,  equally alarming .  He levied those duties 
of tonnage and poundage ,  and increased them as he thought 
fit .  He granted monopolies to companies of merchants on 
their paying him for them ,  notwithstanding the great com -  
plaints that had ,  for years and years ,  been made on the 
subject of monopolies .  He fined the people for disobeying 
proclamations issued by his Sowship in direct violation of 
law .  He revived the detested Forest laws ,  and took private 
pioperty to himself as his forest right .  Above all ,  he 
determined to have what was called Ship Money  ;  that is 



350 A CHILDS HISTORY OF ENGLAND 

to say ,  money for the support of the fleet — not only from 
the seaports ,  but from all the counties of England : having 
found out that ,  in some ancient time or other ,  all the 
counties paid it .  The grievance of this ship money 
being somewhat too strong ,  John Chambers ,  a citizen of 
London ,  refused to pay his part of it .  For this the Lord 
Mayor ordered John Chambers to prison ,  and for that John 
Chambers brought a suit against the Lord Mayor .  Lord 
Say ,  also ,  behaved like a real nobleman ,  and declared he 
would not pay .  But ,  the sturdiest and best opponent of 
the ship money was John Hampden ,  a gentleman of Bucking -  
hamshire ,  who had sat among the  "  vipers  "  in the House 
of Commons when there was such a thing ,  and who had 
been the bosom friend of Sir John Eliot .  This case was 
tried before the twelve judges in the Court of Exchequer ,  
and again the Kings lawyers said it was impossible that 
ship money could be wrong ,  because the King could do 
no wrong ,  however hard he tried — and he really did try 
very hard during these twelve years .  Seven of the judges 
said that was quite true ,  and Mr .  Hampden was bound to 
pay : five of the judges said that was quite false ,  and 
Mr .  Hampden was not bound to pay .  So ,  the King tri -  
umphed  ( as he thought )  ,  by making Hampden the most 
popular man in England  ;  where matters were getting to 
that height now ,  that many honest Englishmen could not 
endure their country ,  and sailed away across the seas to 
found a colony in Massachusetts Bay in America .  It is 
said that Hampden himself and his relation Oliver Crom -  
well were going with a company of such voyagers ,  and 
were actually on board ship ,  when they were stopped by 
a proclamation ,  prohibiting sea captains to carry out such 
passengers without the royal license .  But O  !  it would 
have been well for the King if he had let them go  !  

This was the state of England .  If Laud had been a 
madman just broke loose ,  he could not have done more 
mischief than he did in Scotland .  In his endeavours  ( in 
which he was seconded by the King ,  then in person in that 
part of his dominions )  to force his own ideas of bishops ,  and 
his own religious forms and ceremonies upon the Scotch ,  
he roused that nation to a perfect frenzy .  They formed 
a solemn league ,  which they called The Covenant ,  for the 
preservation of their own religious forms  ;  they rose in arms 
throughout the whole country  ;  they summoned all their 



CHARLES THE FIRST 35 T 

men to prayers and sermons twice a day by beat of drum  ;  
they sang psalms ,  in which they compared their enemies 
to all the evil spirits that ever were heard of ;  and they 
solemnly vowed to smite them with the sword .  At first 
the King tried force ,  then treaty ,  then a Scottish Parliament 
which did not answer at all .  Then he tried the Earl of 
Strafford ,  formerly Sir Thomas Wentworth  ;  who ,  as Lord 
Wentworth ,  had been governing Ireland .  He ,  too ,  had 
carried it with a very high hand there ,  though to the benefit 
and prosperity of that country .  

Strafford and Laud were for conquering the Scottish people 
by force of arms .  Other lords who were taken into council ,  
recommended that a Parliament should at last be called  ;  
to which the King unwillingly consented .  So ,  on the 
thirteenth of April ,  one thousand six hundred and forty ,  
that then strange sight ,  a Parliament ,  was seen at West -  
minster .  It is called the Short Parliament ,  for it lasted 
a very little while .  While the members were all looking 
at one another ,  doubtful who would dare to speak ,  Mr .  Pym 
arose and set forth all that the King had done unlawfully 
during the past twelve years ,  and what was the position 
to which England was reduced .  This great example set ,  
other members took courage and spoke the truth freely ,  
though with great patience and moderation .  The King ,  
a little frightened ,  sent to say that if they would grant him 
a certain sum on certain terms ,  no more ship money should 
be raised .  They debated the matter for two days  ;  and 
then ,  as they would not give him all he asked without 
promise or inquiry ,  he dissolved them .  

But they knew very well that he must have a Parliament 
now  ;  and he began to make that discovery too ,  though rather 
late in the day .  Wherefore ,  on the twenty - fourth of September ,  
being then at York with an army collected against the 
Scottish people ,  but his own men sullen and discontented like 
the rest of the nation ,  the King told the great council of 
the Lords ,  whom he had called to meet him there ,  that he 
would summon another Parliament to assemble on the third 
of November .  The soldiers of the Covenant had now forced 
their way into England and had taken possession of the 
northern counties ,  where the coals are got .  As it would 
never do to be without coals ,  and as the Kings troops could 
make no head against the Covenanters so full of gloomy zeal ,  
a truce was made ,  and a treaty with Scotland was taken into 



352 A CHILDS HISTORY OF ENGLAND 

consideration .  Meanwhile the northern counties paid the 
Covenanters to leave the coals alone ,  and keep quiet .  

We have now disposed of the Short Parliament .  We 
have next to see what memorable things were done by the 
Long one .  

Second Part .  

The Long Parliament assembled on the third of November ,  
one thousand six hundred and forty - one .  That day week the 
Earl of Strafford arrived from York ,  very sensible that the 
spirited and determined men who formed that Parliament 
were no friends towards him ,  who had not only deserted 
the cause of the people ,  but who had on all occasions opposed 
himself to their liberties .  The King told him ,  for his com -  
fort ,  that the Parliament   ;  should not hurt one hair of his 
head .  "  But ,  on the very next day Mr .  Pym ,  in the House 
of Commons ,  and with great solemnity ,  impeached the Earl 
of Strafford as a traitor .  He was immediately taken into 
custody and fell from his proud height .  

It was the twenty - second of March before he was brought 
to trial in Westminster Hall  ;  where ,  although he was very ill 
and suffered great pain ,  he defended himself with such ability 
and majesty ,  that it was doubtful whether he would not get 
the best of it .  But on the thirteenth day of the trial ,  Pym 
produced in the House of Commons a copy of some notes 
of a council ,  found by young Sir Harry Vane in a red velvet 
cabinet belonging to his father  ( Secretary Vane ,  who sat at 
the council - table "  with the Earl )  ,  in which Strafford had 
distinctly told the King that he was free from all rules and 
obligations of government ,  and might do with Ins people 
whatever he liked  ;  and in which he had added —  "  You have 
an army in Ireland that you may employ to reduce this 
kingdom to obedience .  "  It was not clear whether by the 
words  " this kingdom ,  "  he had really meant England or 
Scotland  ;  but the Parliament contended that he meant 
England ,  and this was treason .  At the same sitting of the 
House of Commons it was resolved to bring in a bill of 
attainder declaring the treason to have been committed : _ in 
preference to proceeding with the trial by impeachment ,  which 
would have required the treason to be proved .  

So ,  a bill was brought in at once ,  was carried through the 
House of Commons by a large majority ,  and was sent up to 
the House of Lords .  "  While it was still uncertain whether 



CHARLES THE FIRST 353 

the House of Lords would pass it and the King consent to 
it ,  Pym disclosed to the House of Commons that the King 
and Queen had both been plotting with the officers of the 
army to bring up the soldiers and control the Parliament ,  
and also to introduce two hundred soldiers into the Tower 
of London to effect the Earls escape .  The plotting with 
the army was revealed by one George Goring ,  the son of a 
lord of that name : a bad fellow who was one of the original 
plotters ,  and turned traitor .  The King had actually given 
his warrant for the admission of the two hundred men into 
the Tower ,  and they would have got in too ,  but for the 
refusal of the governor — a sturdy Scotchman of the name of 
Balfour — to admit them .  These matters being made public ,  
great numbers of people began to riot outside the Houses of 
Parliament ,  and to cry out for the execution of the Earl of 
Strafford ,  as one of the Kings chief instruments against them .  
The bill passed the House of Lords while the people were in 
this state of agitation ,  and was laid before the King for his 
assent ,  together with another bill declaring that the Parlia -  
ment then assembled should not be dissolved or adjourned 
without their own consent .  The King — not unwilling to save 
a faithful servant ,  though he had no great attachment for 
him — was in some doubt what to do  ;  but he gave his consent 
to both bills ,  although he in his heart believed that the bill 
against the Earl of Strafford was unlawful and unjust .  The 
Earl had written to him ,  telling him that he was willing to 
die for his sake .  But he had not expected that his royal 
master would take him at his word quite so readily  ;  for ,  
when he heard his doom ,  he laid his hand upon his heart ,  
and said ,   "  Put not your trust in Princes  !   "  

The King ,  who never could be straightforward and plain ,  
through one single day or through one single sheet of paper ,  
wrote a letter to the Lords ,  and sent it by the young Prince 
of Wales ,  entreating them to prevail with the Commons that 
 "  that unfortunate man should fulfil the natural course of his 
life in a close imprisonment .  "  In a postscript to the very 
same letter ,  he added ,   "  If he must die ,  it were charity to 
reprieve him till Saturday .  "  If there had been any doubt 
of his fate ,  this weakness and meanness would have settled 
it .  The very next day ,  which was the twelfth of May ,  he 
was brought out to be beheaded on Tower Hill .  

Archbishop Laud ,  who had been so fond of having peoples 
ears cropped off and their noses slit ,  was now confined in the 
1 .  r ,  b 



354 A childs history of England 

Tower too  ;  and when the Earl went by his window to his 
death ,  he was there ,  at his request ,  to give him his blessing .  
They had been great friends in the Kings cause ,  and the 
Earl had written to him in the days of their power that 
he thought it would be an admirable thing to have Mr .  
Hampden publicly whipped for refusing to pay the ship 
money .  However ,  those high and mighty doings were over 
now ,  and the Earl went his way to death with dignity 
and heroism .  The governor wished him to get into a coach 
at the Tower gate ,  for fear the people should tear him to 
pieces  ;  but he said it was all one to him whether he died by 
the axe or by the peoples hands .  So ,  he walked ,  with a firm 
tread and a stately look ,  and sometimes pulled off his hat 
to them as he passed along .  They were profoundly quiet .  
He made a speech on the scaffold from some notes he had 
prepared  ( the paper was found lying there after his head was 
struck off )  ,  and one blow of the axe killed him ,  in the forty -  
ninth year of his age .  

This bold and daring act ,  the Parliament accompanied by 
other famous measures ,  all originating  ( as even this did )  in 
the Kings having so grossly and so long abused his power .  
The name of Delinquents was applied to all sheriffs and 
other officers who had been concerned in raising the ship 
money ,  or any other money ,  from the people ,  in an unlawful 
manner  ;  the Hampden judgment was reversed  ;  the judges 
who had decided against Hampden were called upon to give 
large securities that they would take such consequences as 
Parliament might impose upon them  ;  and one was arrested 
as he sat in High Court ,  and carried off to prison .  Laud 
was impeached  ;  the unfortunate victims whose ears had been 
cropped and whose noses had been slit ,  were brought out of 
prison in triumph  ;  and a bill was passed declaring that a 
Parliament should be called every third year ,  and that if the 
King and the Kings officers did not call it ,  the people should 
assemble of themselves and summon it ,  as of their own right 
and power .  Great illuminations and rejoicings took place 
over all these things ,  and the country was wildly excited .  
That the Parliament took advantage of this excitement and 
stirred them up by every means ,  there is no doubt  ;  but you 
are always to remember those twelve long years ,  during which 
the King had tried so hard whether he really could do any 
wrong or not .  

All this time there was a great religious outcry against 



CHARLES THE FIRST 355 

the right of the Bishops to sit in Parliament  ;  to which the 
Scottish people particularly objected .  The English were 
divided on this subject ,  and ,  partly on this account and partly 
because they had had foolish expectations that the Parliament 
would be able to take off nearly all the taxes ,  numbers of 
them sometimes wavered and inclined towards the King .  

I believe myself ,  that if ,  at this or almost any other 
period of his life ,  the King could have been trusted by any 
man not out of his senses ,  he might have saved himself and 
kept his throne .  But ,  on the English army being disbanded ,  
he plotted with the officers again ,  as he had done before ,  
and established the fact beyond all doubt by putting his 
signature of approval to a petition against the Parliamentary 
leaders ,  which was drawn up by certain officers .  When the 
Scottish army was disbanded ,  he went to Edinburgh in four 
days — which was going very fast at that time — to plot again ,  
and so darkly too ,  that it is difficult to decide what his whole 
object was .  Some suppose that he wanted to gain over the 
Scottish Parliament ,  as he did in fact gain over ,  by presents 
and favours ,  many Scottish lords and men of power .  Some 
think that he went to get proofs against the Parliamentary 
leaders in England of their having treasonably invited the 
Scottish people to come and help them .  With whatever 
object he went to Scotland ,  he did little good by going At 
the instigation of the Earl of Montrose ,  a desperate man 
who was then in prison for plotting ,  he tried to kidnap three 
Scottish lords who escaped .  A committee of the Parliament 
at home ,  who had followed to watch him ,  writing an account 
of this Incident ,  as it was called ,  to the Parliament ,  the 
Parliament made a fresh stir about it  ;  were ,  or feigned to 
be ,  much alarmed for themselves  ;  and wrote to the Earl op 
Essex ,  the commander - in - chief ,  for a guard to protect them .  

It is not absolutely proved that the King plotted in Ireland 
besides ,  but it is very probable that he did ,  and that the 
Queen did ,  and that he had some wild hope of gaining the 
Irish people over to his side by favouring a rise among them .  
Whether or no ,  they did rise in a most brutal and savage 
rebellion  ;  in which ,  encouraged by their priests ,  they com -  
mitted such atrocities upon numbers of the English ,  of both 
sexes and of all ages ,  as nobody could believe ,  but for their 
being related on oath by eye - witnesses .  Whether one 
hundred thousand or two hundred thousand Protestants 
were murdered in this outbreak ,  is uncertain  ;  but ,  that it 



356 A CHILDS HISTORY OF ENGLAND 

was as ruthless and barbarous an outbreak as ever was 
known among any savage people ,  is certain .  

The Kinsr came home from Scotland ,  determined to make 
a great struggle for his lost power .  He believed that ,  through 
his presents and favours ,  Scotland would take no part against 
him  ;  and the Lord Mayor of London received him with such 
a magnificent dinner that he thought he must have become 
popular again in England .  It would take a good many Lord 
Mayors ,  however ,  to make a people ,  and the King soon found 
himself mistaken .  

Not so soon ,  though ,  but that there was a great opposition 
in the Parliament to a celebrated paper put forth by Pym 
and Hampden and the rest ,  called  " The Remonstrance ,  "  
which set forth all the illegal acts that the King had ever 
clone ,  but politely laid the blame of them on his bad advisers .  
Even when it was passed and presented to him ,  the King still 
thought himself strong enough to discharge Balfour from his 
command in the Tower ,  and to put in his place a man of bad 
character  ;  to whom the Commons instantly objected ,  and 
whom he was obliged to abandon .  At this time ,  the old 
outcry about the Bishops became louder than ever ,  and the 
old Archbishop of York was so near being murdered as he 
went down to the House of Lords — being laid hold of by the 
mob and violently knocked about ,  in return for very foolishly 
scolding a shrill boy who was yelping out  "  No Bishops  !   "  
—that he sent for all the Bishops who were in town ,  and 
proposed to them to sign a declaration that ,  as they could 
no longer without danger to their lives attend their duty in 
Parliament ,  they protested against the lawfulness of every -  
thing done in their absence .  This they asked the King to 
send to the House of Lords ,  which he did .  Then the House 
of Commons impeached the whole partv of Bishops and sent 
them off to the Tower .  

Taking no warning from this ,  but encouraged by there 
being a moderate party in the Parliament who objected to 
these strong measures ,  the King ,  on the third of January ,  
one thousand six hundred and forty - two ,  took the rashest 
step that ever was taken by mortal man .  

Of his own accord and without advice ,  he sent the 
Attorney - General to the House of Lords ,  to accuse of treason 
certain members of Parliament who as popular leaders were 
the most obnoxious to him  ;  Lord Kimbolton ,  Sir Arthur 
Haselrig ,  Denzil Hollis ,  John Pym  ( they used to call him 



CHARLES THE FIEST 357 

King Pym ,  he possessed such power and looked so big )  ,  
John Hampden ,  and William Strode .  The houses of those 
members he caused to be entered ,  and their papers to be 
sealed up .  At the same time ,  he sent a messenger to the 
House of Commons demanding to have the five gentlemen 
who were members of that House immediately produced .  
To this the House replied that they should appear as soon 
as there was any legal charge against them ,  and immediately 
adjourned .  

Next day ,  the House of Commons sent into the City to 
let the Lord Mayor know that their privileges are invaded 
by the King ,  and that there is no safety for anybody or 
anything .  Then ,  when the five members are gone out of the 
way ,  down comes the King himself ,  with all his guard and 
from two to three hundred gentlemen and soldiers ,  of whom 
the greater part were armed .  These he leaves in the hall  ;  
and then ,  with his nephew at his side ,  goes into the House ,  
takes off his hat ,  and walks up to the Speakers chair .  The 
Speaker leaves it ,  the King stands in front of it ,  looks about 
him steadily for a little while ,  and says he has come for 
those five members .  No one speaks ,  and then he calls John 
Pym by name .  No one speaks ,  and then he calls Denzil 
Hollis by name .  No one speaks ,  and then he asks the Speaker 
of the House where those five members are ? The Speaker ,  
answering on his knee ,  nobly replies that he is the servant 
of that House ,  and that he has neither eyes to see ,  nor tongue 
to speak ,  anything but what the House commands him .  Upon 
this ,  the King ,  beaten from that time evermore ,  replies that 
he will seek them himself ,  for they have committed treason  ;  
and goes out ,  with his hat in his hand ,  amid some audible 
murmurs from the members .  

No words can describe the hurry that arose out of doors 
when all this was known .  The five members had gone for 
safety to a house in Coleman - street ,  in the City ,  where they 
were guarded all night  ;  and indeed the whole city watched 
in arms like an army .  At ten oclock in the morning ,  the 
King already frightened at what he had done ,  came to the 
Guildhall ,  with only half a dozen lords ,  and made a speech 
to the people ,  hoping they would not shelter those whom he 
accused of treason .  Next day ,  he issued a proclamation for 
the apprehension of the five members  ;  but the Parliament 
minded it so little that they made great arrangements for 
having them brought down to Westminster in great state ,  



358 A CHILDa HISTOKY OF ENGLAND 

five days afterwards .  The King was so alarmed now at his 
own imprudence ,  if not for his own safety ,  that he left his 
palace at Whitehall ,  and went away with his Queen and 
children to Hampton Court .  

It was the eleventh of May ,  when the five members were 
carried in state and triumph to Westminster .  They were 
taken by water .  The river could not be seen for the boats 
on it  ;  and the five members were hemmed in by barges full 
of men and great guns ,  ready to protect them ,  at any cost .  
Along the Strand a large body of the train - bands of London ,  
under their commander ,  Skippon ,  marched to be ready to assist 
the little fleet .  Beyond them ,  came a crowd who choked the 
streets ,  roaring incessantly about the Bishops and the Papists ,  
and crying out contemptuously as they passed Whitehall ,  
 " What has become of the King? "  With this great noise 
outside the House of Commons ,  and with great silence within ,  
Mr .  Pym rose and informed the House of the great kindness 
with which they had been received in the City .  Upon that ,  
the House called the sheriffs in and thanked them ,  and 
requested the train - bands ,  under their commander Skippon ,  
to guard the House of Commons every day .  Then ,  came 
four thousand men on horseback out of Buckinghamshire ,  
offering their services as a guard too ,  and bearing a petition 
to the King ,  complaining of the injury that had been done 
to Mr .  Hampden ,  who was their county man and much 
beloved and honoured .  

When the King set off for Hampton Court ,  the gentlemen 
and soldiers who had been with him followed him out of 
town as far as Kingston - upon - Thames  ;  next day ,  Lord Digby 
came to them from the King at Hampton Court ,  in his coach 
and six ,  to inform them that the King accepted their protec -  
tion .  This ,  the Parliament said ,  was making war against 
the kingdom ,  and Lord Digby fled abroad .  The Parliament 
then immediately applied themselves to getting hold of the 
military power of the country ,  well knowing that the King 
was already trying hard to use it against them ,  and that he 
had secretly sent the Earl of Newcastle to Hull ,  to secure 
a valuable magazine of arms and gunpowder that was there .  
In those times ,  every county had its own magazines of arms 
and powder ,  for its own train - bands or militia ;  so ,  the 
Parliament brought in a bill claiming the right  ( which up 
to this time had belonged to the King )  of appointing the 
Lord Lieutenants of counties ,  who commanded these train -  



CHARLES THE FIRST 359 

bands  ;  also ,  of having all the forts ,  castles ,  and garrisons in 
the kingdom ,  put into the hands of such governors as they ,  
the Parliament ,  could confide in .  It also passed a law 
depriving the Bishops of their votes .  The King gave his 
assent to that bill ,  but would not abandon the right of 
appointing the Lord Lieutenants ,  though he said he was 
willing to appoint such as might be suggested to him by the 
Parliament .  When the Earl of Pembroke asked him whether 
he would not give way on that question for a time ,  he said ,  
 "  By God  !  not for one hour  !   "  and upon this he and the 
Parliament went to war .  

His young daughter was betrothed to the Prince of Orange .  
On pretence of taking her to the country of her future 
husband ,  the Queen was already got safely away to Holland ,  
there to pawn the Crown jewels for money to raise an army 
on the Kings side .  The Lord Admiral being sick ,  the House 
of Commons now named the Earl of Warwick to hold his 
place for a year .  The King named another gentleman  ;  the 
House of Commons took its own way ,  and the Earl of 
Warwick became Lord Admiral without the Kings consent .  
The Parliament sent orders down to Hull to have that 
magazine removed to London  ;  the King went down to Hull 
to take it himself .  The citizens would not admit him into 
the town ,  and the governor would not admit him into the 
castle .  The Parliament resolved that whatever the two 
Houses passed ,  and the King would not consent to ,  should be 
called an Ordinance ,  and should be as much a law as if he 
did consent to it .  The King protested against this ,  and 
gave notice that these ordinances were not to be obeyed .  
The King ,  attended by the majority of the House of Peers ,  
and by many members of the House of Commons ,  established 
himself at York .  The Chancellor went to him with the 
Greal Seal ,  and the Parliament made a new Great Seal .  The 
Queen sent over a ship full of arms and ammunition ,  and 
the King issued letters to borrow money at high interest .  
The Parliament raised twenty regiments of foot and seventy -  
five troops of horse  ;  and the people willingly aided them 
with their money ,  plate ,  jewellery ,  and trinkets — the married 
women even with their wedding - rings .  Every member of 
Parliament who could raise a troop or a regiment in his own 
part of the country ,  dressed it according to his taste and in 
his own colours ,  and commanded it .  Foremost among them 
all ,  Oliver Cromwell raised a troop of horse — thoroughly in 



360 A CHILDS HISTORY OF ENGLAND 

earnest and thoroughly well armed — who were ,  perhaps ,  the 
best soldiers that ever were seen .  

In some of their proceedings ,  this famous Parliament 
passed the bounds of previous law and custom ,  yielded to 
and favoured riotous assemblages of the people ,  and acted 
tyrannically in imprisoning some who differed from the 
popular leaders .  But again ,  you are always to remember 
that the twelve years during which the King had had his 
own wilful way ,  had gone before  ;  and that nothing could 
make the times what they might ,  could ,  would ,  or should 
have been ,  if those twelve years had never rolled away .  

Third Part .  

I shall not try to relate the particulars of the great civil 
war between King Charles the First and the Long Parlia -  
ment ,  which lasted nearly four years ,  and a full account of 
which would fill many large books .  It was a sad thing that 
Englishmen should once more be fighting against English -  
men on English ground  ;  but ,  it is some consolation to know 
that on both sides there was great humanity ,  forbearance ,  
and honour .  The soldiers of the Parliament were far more 
remarkable for these good qualities than the soldiers of the 
King  ( many of whom fought for mere pay without much 
caring for the cause )   ;  but those of the nobility and gentry 
who were on the Kings side were so brave ,  and so faithful 
to him ,  that their conduct cannot but command our highest 
admiration .  Among them were great numbers of Catholics ,  
who took the royal side because the Queen was so strongly 
of their persuasion .  

The King might have distinguished some of these gallant 
spirits ,  if he had been as generous a spirit himself ,  by giving 
them the command of his army .  Instead of that ,  however ,  
true to his old high notions of royalty ,  he entrusted it to his 
two nephews ,  Prince Rupert and Prixce Maurice ,  who 
were of royal blood and came over from abroad to help him .  
It might have been better for him if they had stayed away  ;  
since Prince Rupert was an impetuous hot - headed fellow ,  
whose only idea was to dash into battle at all times and 
seasons ,  and lay about him .  

The general - in - chief of the Parliamentary army Avas the 
Earl of Essex ,  a gentleman of honour and an excellent 
soldier .  A little while before the war broke out ,  there had 



CHARLES THE FIRST 36 1 

been some rioting at Westminster between certain officious 
law students and noisy soldiers ,  and the shopkeepers and 
their apprentices ,  and the general people in the streets .  At 
that time the Kings friends called the crowd ,  Roundheads ,  
because the apprentices wore short hair  ;  the crowd ,  in re -  
turn ,  called their opponents Cavaliers ,  meaning that they 
were a blustering set ,  who pretended to be very military .  
These two words now began to be used to distinguish the two 
sides in the civil war .  The Royalists also called the Parlia -  
mentary men Rebels and Rogues ,  while the Parliamentary 
men called them Malignants ,  and spoke of themselves as the 
Godly ,  the Honest ,  and so forth .  

The war broke out at Portsmouth ,  where that double 
traitor Goring had again gone over to the King and was 
besieged by the Parliamentary troops .  Upon this ,  the King 
proclaimed the Earl of Essex and the officers serving under 
him ,  traitors ,  and called upon his loyal subjects to meet him 
in arms at Nottingham on the twenty - fifth of August .  But 
his loyal subjects came about him in scanty numbers ,  and it 
was a windy gloomy day ,  and the Royal Standard got 
blown down ,  and the whole affair was very melancholy .  
The chief engagements after this ,  took place in the vale of 
the Red Horse near Banbury ,  at Brentford ,  at Devizes ,  at 
Chalgrove Field  ( where Mr .  Hampden was so sorely wounded 
while fighting at the head of his men ,  that he died within 
a week )  ,  at Newbury  ( in which battle Lord Falkland ,  
one of the best noblemen on the Kings side ,  was killed )  ,  at 
Leicester ,  at Naseby ,  at Winchester ,  at Marston Moor near 
York ,  at Newcastle ,  and in many other parts of England 
and Scotland .  These battles were attended with various suc -  
cesses .  At one time ,  the King was victorious  ;  at another 
time ,  the Parliament .  But almost all the great and busy 
towns were against the King  ;  and when it was considered 
necessary to fortify London ,  all ranks of people ,  from labour -  
ing men and women ,  up to lords and ladies ,  worked hard 
together with heartiness and good will .  The most distin -  
guished leaders on the Parliamentary side were Hampden ,  
Sir Thomas Fairfax ,  and ,  above all ,  Oliver Cromwell ,  
and his son - in - law Ireton .  

During the whole of this war ,  the people ,  to whom it was 

very expensive and irksome ,  and to whom it was made the 

more distressing by almost every family being divided — some 

of its members attaching themselves to one side and some 

1 .  Bb 3 



362 A CHILDS HISTOKY OF ENGLAND 

to the other — were over and over again most anxious for 
peace .  So were some of the best men in each cause .  Ac -  
cordingly ,  treaties of peace were discussed between commis -  
sioners from the Parliament and the King ;  at York ,  at 
Oxford  ( where the King held a little Parliament of his own )  ,  
and at Uxbridge .  But they came to nothing .  In all these 
negotiations ,  and in all his difficulties ,  the King showed 
himself at his best .  He was courageous ,  cool ,  self - possessed ,  
and clever  ;  but ,  the old taint of his character was always in 
him ,  and he was never for one single moment to be trusted .  
Lord Clarendon ,  the historian ,  one of his highest admirers ,  
supposes that he had unhappily promised the Queen never 
to make peace without her consent ,  and that this must often 
be taken as his excuse .  He never kept his word from night 
to morning .  He signed a cessation of hostilities with the 
blood - stained Irish rebels for a sum of money ,  and invited 
the Irish regiments over ,  to help him against the Parliament .  
In the battle of Naseby ,  his cabinet was seized and was 
found to contain a correspondence with the Queen ,  in which 
he expressly told her that he had deceived the Parliament — 
a mongrel Parliament ,  he called it now ,  as an improvement 
on his old term of vipers — in pretending to recognise it and 
to treat with it  ;  and from which it further appeared that he 
had long been in secret treaty with the Duke of Lorraine for 
a foreign army of ten thousand men .  Disappointed in this ,  
he sent a most devoted friend of his ,  the Earl of Glamorgan ,  
to Ireland ,  to conclude a secret treaty with the Catholic 
powers ,  to send him an Irish army of ten thousand men  ;  in 
return for which he was to bestow great favours on the 
Catholic religion .  And ,  when this treaty was discovered in 
the carriage of a fighting Irish Archbishop who was killed 
in one of the many skirmishes of those days ,  he basely 
denied and deserted his attached friend ,  the Earl ,  on his 
being charged with high treason  ;  and — even worse than 
this — had left blanks in the secret instructions he gave him 
with his own kingly hand ,  expressly that he might thus 
save himself .  

At last ,  on the twenty  - seventh day of April ,  one thousand 
six hundred and forty - six ,  the King found himself in the 
city of Oxford ,  so surrounded by the Parliamentary army 
who were closing in upon him on all sides that he felt that 
if he would escape he must delay no lunger .  So ,  that night ,  
having altered the cut of his hair and beard ,  he was dressed 



CHAELES THE FIEST 363 

up as a servant and put upon a horse with a cloak strapped 
behind him ,  and rode out of the town behind one of his own 
faithful followers ,  with a clergyman of that country who 
knew the road well ,  for a guide .  He rode towards London 
as far as Harrow ,  and then altered his plans and resolved ,  it 
would seem ,  to go to the Scottish camp .  The Scottish 
men had been invited over to help the Parliamentary army ,  
and had a large force then in England .  The King was so 
desperately intriguing in everything he did ,  that it is doubt -  
ful what he exactly meant by this step .  He took it ,  any -  
how ,  and delivered himself up to the Earl of Leven ,  the 
Scottish general - in - chief ,  who treated him as an honourable 
prisoner .  Negotiations between the Parliament on the one 
hand and the Scottish authorities on the other ,  as to what 
should be done with him ,  lasted until the following February .  
Then ,  when the King had refused to the Parliament the 
concession of that old militia point for twenty years ,  and 
had refused to Scotland the recognition of its Solemn League 
and Covenant ,  Scotland got a handsome sum for its army 
and its help ,  and the King into the bargain .  He was taken ,  
by certain Parliamentary commissioners appointed to receive 
him ,  to one of his own houses ,  called Holmby House ,  near 
Althorpe ,  in Northamptonshire .  

While the Civil War was still in progress ,  John Pym 
died ,  and was buried with great honour in Westminster 
Abbey — not with greater honour than he deserved ,  for the 
liberties of Englishmen owe a mighty debt to Pym and 
Hampden .  The war was but newly over when the Earl of 
Essex died ,  of an illness brought on by his having over -  
heated himself in a stag hunt in Windsor Forest .  He ,  too ,  
was buried in Westminster Abbey ,  with great state .  I 
wish it were not necessary to add that Archbishop Laud 
died upon the scaffold when the war was not yet done .  
His trial lasted in all nearly a year ,  and ,  it being doubtful 
even then whether the charges brought against him amounted 
to treason ,  the odious old contrivance of the worst kings 
was resorted to ,  and a bill of attainder was brought in 
against him .  He was a violently prejudiced and mis -  
chievous person  ;  had had strong ear - cropping and nose -  
splitting propensities ,  as you know  ;  and had done a world 
of harm .  But he died peaceably ,  and like a brave old 
man .  



364 A CHILDS HISTORY OF ENGLAND 

Fourth Part .  

When the Parliament had got the King into their hands ,  
they became very anxious to get rid of their army ,  in which 
Oliver Cromwell had begun to acquire great power  ;  not 
only because of his courage and high abilities ,  but because 
he professed to be very sincere in the Scottish sort of 
Puritan religion that was then exceedingly popular among 
the soldiers .  They were as much opposed to the Bishops 
as to the Pope himself ;  and the very privates ,  drummers ,  
and trumpeters ,  had such an inconvenient habit of starting 
up and preaching long - winded discourses ,  that I would not 
have belonged to that army on any account .  

So ,  the Parliament ,  being far from sure but that the army 
might begin to preach and fight against them now it had 
nothing else to do .  proposed to disband the greater part of 
it ,  to send another part to serve in Ireland against the rebels ,  
and to keep only a small force in England .  But .  the army 
would not consent to be broken up ,  except upon its own 
conditions  ;  and ,  when the Parliament showed an intention 
of compelling it ,  it acted for itself in an unexpected manner .  
A certain cornet ,  of the name of Joice ,  arrived at Holmby 
House one night ,  attended by four hundred horsemen ,  went 
into the Kings room with his hat in one hand and a pistol 
in the other ,  and told the King that he had come to take 
him away .  The King was willing enough to go .  and only 
stipulated that he should be publicly required to do so next 
morning .  Next morning ,  accordingly ,  he appeared on the 
top of the steps of the house ,  and asked Cornet Joice 
before his men and the guard set there by the Parliament ,  
what authority he had for taking him away? To this 
Cornet Joice replied .   "  The authority of the army .  "   "  Have 
you a written commission ?  "  said the King .  Joice .  point -  
ing to his four hundred men on horseback ,  replied ,   "  That 
is my commission . *  "  Well ,  "  said the King ,  smiling ,  as if 
he were pleased ,   "  I never before read such a commission  ;  
but it is written in fair and legible characters .  This is a 
company of as handsome proper gentlemen as I have seen 
a long while .  "  He was asked where he would like to live ,  
and he said at Newmarket .  So .  to Newmarket he and 
Cornet Joice and the four hundred horsemen rode : the 
King remarking ,  in the same smiling way .  that he could 
ride as far at a spell as Cornet Joice .  or any man there ,  



CHARLES THE FIRST 365 

The King quite believed ,  I think ,  that the army were his 
friends .  He said as much to Fairfax when that general ,  
Oliver Cromwell ,  and Ireton ,  went to persuade him to return 
to the custody of the Parliament .  He preferred to remain 
as he was ,  and resolved to remain as he was .  And when 
the army moved nearer and nearer London to frighten the 
Parliament into yielding to their demands ,  they took the 
King with them .  It was a deplorable thing that England 
should be at the mercy of a great body of soldiers with arms 
in their hands  ;  but the King certainly favoured them at 
this important time of his life ,  as compared with the more 
lawful power that tried to control him .  It must be added ,  
however ,  that they treated him ,  as yet ,  more respectfully 
and kindly than the Parliament had done .  They allowed 
him to be attended by his own servants ,  to be splendidly 
entertained at various houses ,  and to see his children — at 
Caversham House ,  near Beading — for two days .  Whereas ,  
the Parliament had been rather hard with him ,  and had 
only allowed him to ride out and play at bowls .  

It is much to be believed that if the King could have been 
trusted ,  even at this time ,  he might have been saved .  Even 
Oliver Cromwell expressly said that he did believe that no 
man could enjoy his possessions in peace ,  unless the King 
had his rights .  He was not unfriendly towards the King  ;  
he had been present when he received his children ,  and had 
been much affected by the pitiable nature of the scene  ;  he 
saw the King often  ;  he frequently walked and talked with 
him in the long galleries and pleasant gardens of the Palace 
at Hampton Court ,  whither he was now removed  ;  and in all 
this risked something of his influence with the army .  But ,  
the King was in secret hopes of help from the Scottish 
people  ;  and the moment he was encouraged to join them 
he began to be cool to his new friends ,  the arm} 7  ,  and to tell 
the officers that they could not possibly do without him .  At 
the very time ,  too ,  when he was promising to make Cromwell 
and Ireton noblemen ,  if they would help him up to his old 
height ,  he was writing to the Queen that he meant to hang 
them .  They both afterwards declared that they had .  been 
privately informed that such a letter would be found ,  on a 
certain evening ,  sewed up in a saddle which would be taken 
to the Blue Boar in Holborn to be sent to Dover  ;  and that 
they went there ,  disguised as common soldiers ,  and sat drink -  
ing in the inn - yard until a man came with the saddle ,  which 



366 A CHILDS HISTORY OF ENGLAND 

they ripped up with their knives ,  and therein found the 
letter .  I see little reason to doubt the story .  It is certain 
that Oliver Cromwell told one of the Kings most faithful 
followers that the King could not be trusted ,  and that he 
would not be answerable if anything amiss were to happen 
to him .  Still ,  even after that ,  he kept a promise he had 
made to the King ,  by letting him know that there was a plot 
with a certain portion of the army to seize him .  I believe 
that ,  in fact ,  he sincerely wanted the King to escape abroad ,  
and so to be got rid of without more trouble or danger .  
That Oliver himself had work enough with the army is 
pretty plain  ;  for some of the troops were so mutinous 
against him ,  and against those who acted with him at this 
time ,  that he found it necessary to have one man shot at the 
head of his regiment to overawe the rest .  

The King ,  when he received Olivers warning ,  made his 
escape from Hampton Court  ;  after some indecision and un -  
certainty ,  he went to Carisbrooke Castle in the Isle of Wight .  
At first ,  he was pretty free there  ;  but ,  even there ,  he 
carried on a pretended treaty with the Parliament ,  while he 
was really treating with commissioners from Scotland to 
send an army into England to take his part .  When he 
broke off this treaty with the Parliament  ( having settled 
with Scotland )  and was treated as a prisoner ,  his treatment 
was not changed too soon ,  for he had plotted to escape that 
very night to a ship sent by the Queen ,  which was lying off 
the island .  

He was doomed to be disappointed in his hopes from Scot -  
land .  The agreement he had made with the Scottish Com -  
missioners was not favourable enough to the religion of that 
country to please the Scottish clergy  ;  and they preached 
against it .  The consequence was ,  that the army raised in 
Scotland and sent over ,  was too small to do much  ;  and that ,  
although it was helped by a rising of the Eoyalists in Eng -  
land and by good soldiers from Ireland ,  it could make no 
head against the Parliamentary army under such men as 
Cromwell and Fairfax .  The Kings eldest son .  the Prince of 
Wales ,  came over from Holland with nineteen ships  ( a part 
of the English fleet having gone over to him )  to help his 
father  ;  but nothing came of his voyage ,  and he was fain to 
return .  The most remarkable event of this second civil war 
was the cruel execution by the Parliamentary General ,  of 
Sir Charles Lucas and Sir George Lisle ,  two grand 



CHARLES THE FIRST 367 

Royalist generals ,  who had bravely defended Colchester 
under every disadvantage of famine and distress for nearly 
three months .   " When Sir Charles Lucas was shot ,  Sir 
George Lisle kissed his body ,  and said to the soldiers who 
were to shoot him ,   " Come nearer ,  and make sure of me .  "  
 " I warrant you ,  Sir George ,  "  said one of the soldiers ,   " we 
shall hit you .  "   " Ay? "  he returned with a smile ,   " but 
I have been nearer to you ,  my friends ,  many a time ,  and you 
have missed me .  "  

The Parliament ,  after being fearfully bullied by the army 
— who demanded to have seven members whom they disliked 
given up to them — had voted that they would have nothing 
more to do with the King .  On the conclusion ,  however ,  of 
this second civil war  ( which did not last more than six 
months )  ,  they appointed commissioners to treat with him .  
The King ,  then so far released again as to be allowed to live 
in a private house at Newport in the Isle of Wight ,  managed 
his own part of the negotiation with a sense that was admired 
by all who saw him ,  and gave up ,  in the end ,  all that was 
asked of him — even yielding  ( which he had steadily refused ,  
so far )  to the temporary abolition of the bishops ,  and the 
transfer of their church land to the Crown .  Still ,  with his 
old fatal vice upon him ,  when his best friends joined the 
commissioners in beseeching him to yield all those points as 
the only means of saving himself from the army ,  he was 
plotting to escape from the island  ;  he was holding corre -  
spondence with his friends and the Catholics in Ireland ,  
though declaring that he was not  ;  and he was writing ,  with 
his own hand ,  that in what he yielded he meant nothing but 
to get time to escape .  

Matters were at this pass when the army ,  resolved to defy 
the Parliament ,  marched up to London .  The Parliament ,  
not afraid of them now ,  and boldly led by Hollis ,  voted that 
the Kings concessions were sufficient ground for settling the 
peace of the kingdom .  Upon that ,  Colonel Rich and 
Colonel Pride went down to the House of Commons with 
a regiment of horse soldiers and a regiment of foot  ;  and 
Colonel Pride ,  standing in the lobby with a list of the 
members who were obnoxious to the army in his hand ,  
had them pointed out to him as they came through ,  and 
took them all into custody .  This proceeding was after -  
wards called by the people ,  for a joke ,  Prides Purge .  
Cromwell was in the North ,  at the head of his men ,  at the 



368 A CHILDS HISTORY OF ENGLAND 

time ,  but when he came home ,  approved of what had been 
done .  

What with imprisoning some members and causing others 
to stay away ,  the army had now reduced the House of 
Commons to some fifty or so .  These soon voted that it was 
treason in a king to make war against his parliament and 
his people ,  and sent an ordinance up to the House of Lords 
for the Kings being tried as a traitor .  The House of Lords ,  
then sixteen in number ,  to a man rejected it .  Thereupon ,  
the Commons made an ordinance of their own ,  that they 
were the supreme government of the country ,  and would 
bring the King to trial .  

The King had been taken for security to a place called 
Hurst Castle : a lonely house on a rock in the sea ,  connected 
with the coast of Hampshire by a rough road two miles long 
at low water .  Thence ,  he was ordered to be removed to 
Windsor  ;  thence ,  after being but rudely used there ,  and 
having none but soldiers to wait upon him at table ,  he was 
brought up to St .  Jamess Palace in London ,  and told that 
his trial was appointed for next day .  

On Saturday ,  the twentieth of January ,  one thousand six 
hundred and forty - nine ,  this memorable trial began .  The 
House of Commons had settled that one hundred and thirty -  
five persons should form the Court ,  and these were taken 
from the House itself ,  from among the officers of the army ,  
and from among the lawyers and citizens .  John Bradshaw ,  
serjeant - at - law ,  was appointed president .  The place was 
Westminster Hall .  At the upper end ,  in a red velvet chair ,  
sat the president ,  with his hat  ( lined with plates of iron for 
his protection )  on his head .  The rest of the Court sat on 
side benches ,  also wearing their hats .  The Kings seat was 
covered with velvet ,  like that of the president ,  and was 
opposite to it .  He was brought from St .  Jamess to White -  
hall ,  and from Whitehall he came by water to his trial .  

When he came in ,  he looked round very steadily on the 
Court ,  and on the great number of spectators ,  and then sat 
down : presently he got up and looked round again .  On the 
indictment  "  against Charles Stuart ,  for high treason ,  "  being 
read ,  he smiled several times ,  and lie denied the authority of 
the Court ,  saying that there could be no parliament without 
a House of Lords ,  and that he saw no House of Lords there .  
Also ,  that the King ought to be there ,  and that he saw no 
King in the Kings right place .  Bradshaw replied ,  that the 



CHARLES THE FIRST 369 

Court was satisfied with its authority ,  and that its authority 
was Gods authority and the kingdoms .  He then adjourned 
the Court to the following Monday .  On that day ,  the trial 
was resumed ,  and went on all the week .  When the Saturday 
came ,  as the King passed forward to his place in the Hall ,  
some soldiers and others cried for  "  justice  !   "  and execution 
on him .  That day ,  too ,  Bradshaw ,  like an angry Sultan ,  
wore a red robe ,  instead of the black robe he had worn 
before .  The King was sentenced to death that day .  As he 
went out ,  one solitary soldier said ,   " God bless you ,  Sir !  "  
For this ,  his officer struck him .  The King said he thought 
the punishment exceeded the offence .  The silver head of his 
walking stick had fallen off while he leaned upon it ,  at one 
time of the trial .  The accident seemed to disturb him ,  as if 
he thought it ominous of the falling of his own head  ;  and he 
admitted as much ,  now it was all over .  

Being taken back to  " Whitehall ,  he sent to the House of 
Commons ,  saying that as the time of his execution might be 
nigh ,  he wished he might be allowed to see his darling 
children .  It was granted .  On the Monday he was taken 
back to St .  Jamess  ;  and his two children then in England ,  
the Princess Elizabeth thirteen years old ,  and the Duke of 
Gloucester nine years old ,  were brought to take leave of him ,  
from Sion House ,  near Brentford .  It was a sad and touch -  
ing scene ,  when he kissed and fondled those poor children ,  
and made a little present of two diamond seals to the Prin -  
cess ,  and gave them tender messages to their mother  ( who 
little deserved them ,  for she had a lover of her own whom 
she married soon afterwards )  ,  and told them that he died 
 "  for the laws and liberties of the land .  "  I am bound to say 
that I dont think he did ,  but I dare say he believed so .  

There were ambassadors from Holland that day ,  to inter -  
cede for the unhappy King ,  whom you and I both wish 
the Parliament had spared  ;  but they got no answer .  The 
Scottish Commissioners interceded too  ;  so did the Prince of 
Wales ,  by a letter in which he offered as the next heir to 
the throne ,  to accept any conditions from the Parliament  ;  
so did the Queen ,  by letter likewise .  Notwithstanding all ,  
the warrant for the execution was this day signed .  There is 
a story that as Oliver Cromwell went to the table with the 
pen in his hand to put his signature to it ,  he drew his pen 
across the face of one of the commissioners ,  who was standing 
near ,  and marked it with ink .  That commissioner had not 



■ »_ 



37° A CHILD B HISTORY OF ENGLAND 

signed his own name yet .  and the story adds that when 
he came to do it he marked Cromwells face with ink in the 
same way .  

The King slept well ,  untroubled by the knowledge that it 
was his last night on earth ,  and rose on the thirtieth of 
January ,  two hours before day ,  and dressed himself carefully .  
He put on two shirts lest he should tremble with the cold ,  
and had his hair very carefully combed .  The warrant had 
been directed to three officers of the army ,  Colonel Hacker ,  
Colonel Hunks ,  and Colonel Phayer .  At ten oclock ,  the 
first of these came to the door and said it was time to go 
to Whitehall .  The King ,  who had always been a quick 
walker ,  walked at his usual speed through the Park ,  and 
called out to the guard ,  with his accustomed voice of 
command ,  u March on apace  !   "  When he came to Whitehall ,  
he was taken to his own bedroom ,  where a breakfast was set 
forth .  As he had taken the Sacrament ,  he would eat nothing 
more  ;  but ,  at about the time when the church bells struck 
twelve at noon  ( for he had to wait ,  through the scaffold not 
being ready )  ,  he took the advice of the good Bishop Juxon 
who was with him ,  and ate a little bread and drank a glass 
of claret .  Soon after he had taken this refreshment .  Colonel 
Hacker came to the chamber with the warrant in his hand ,  
and called for Charles Stuart .  

And then ,  through the long gallery of Whitehall Palace ,  
which he had often seen light and gay and merry and crowded ,  
in very different times ,  the fallen King passed along ,  until he 
came to the centre window of the Banqueting House ,  through 
which he emerged upon the scaffold ,  which was hung with 
black .  He looked at the two executioners ,  who were dressed 
in black and masked  ;  he looked at the troops of soldiers on 
horseback and on foot ,  and all looked up at him in silence  ;  
he looked at the vast array of spectators ,  filling up the view 
beyond ,  and turning all their faces upon him  ;  he looked at 
his old Palace of St .  Jamess  ;  and he looked at the block .  
He seemed a little troubled to find that it was so low ,  and 
asked ,   " if there were no place higher? "  Then ,  to those 
upon the scaffold ,  he said u that it was the Parliament who 
had begun the war ,  and not he  ;  but he hoped they might 
be guiltless too ,  as ill instruments had gone between them .  
In one respect ,  "  he said ,   " he suffered justly ;  and that was 
because he had permitted an unjust sentence to be executed 
on another .  "  In this he referred to the Earl of Strafford .  



CHARLES THE FIRST 37 1 

He was not at all afraid to die  ;  but he was anxious to 
die easily .  When some one touched the axe while he was 
sj^eaking ,  he broke off and called out ,   "  Take heed of the axe  !  
take heed of the axe  !   "  He also said to Colonel Hacker ,  
 " Take care that they do not put me to pain .  "  He told 
the executioner ,   "  I shall say but very short prayers ,  and then 
thrust out my hands "  — as the sign to strike .  

He put his hair up ,  under a white satin cap which the 
bishop had carried ,  and said ,   " I have a good cause and 
a gracious God on my side .  "  The bishop told him that he 
had but one stage more to travel in this weary world ,  and 
that ,  though it was a turbulent and troublesome stage ,  it 
was a short one ,  and would cany him a great way — all the 
way from earth to Heaven .  The Kings last word ,  as he 
gave his cloak and the George — the decoration from his 
breast — to the bishop ,  was ,   "  Remember  !   "  He then kneeled 
down ,  laid his head on the block ,  spread out his hands ,  and 
was instantly killed .  One universal groan broke from the 
crowd  ;  and the soldiers ,  who had sat on their horses and 
stood in their ranks immovable as statues ,  were of a sudden 
all in motion ,  clearing the streets .  

Thus ,  in the forty - ninth year of his age ,  falling at the 
same time of his career as Strafford had fallen in his ,  perished 
Charles the First .  With all my sorrow for him ,  I cannot 
agree with him that he died  "  the martyr of the people  ;   "  for 
the people had been martyrs to him ,  and to his ideas of 
a Kings rights ,  long before .  Indeed ,  I am afraid that he was 
but a bad judge of martyrs  ;  for he had called that infamous 
Duke of Buckingham  " the Martyr of his Sovereign .  "  



CHAPTER XXXIV 

ENGLAND UNDER OLIVER CROMWELL 

Before sunset on the memorable day on  - which King Charles 
the First was executed ,  the House of Commons passed an act 
declaring it treason in any one to proclaim the Prince of 
Wales — or anybody else — King of England .  Soon afterwards ,  
it declared that the House of Lords was useless and dangerous ,  
and ought to be abolished  ;  and directed that the late Kings 
statue should be taken down from the Royal Exchange in 
the City and other public places .  Having laid hold of some 
famous Royalists who had escaped from prison ,  and having 
beheaded the Duke of Hamilton ,  Lord Holland ,  and Lord 
Capel ,  in Palace Yard  ( all of whom died very courageously )  ,  
they then appointed a Council of State to govern the country .  
It consisted of forty - one members ,  of whom five were peers .  
Bradshaw was made president .  The House of Commons also 
re - admitted members who had opposed the Kings death ,  and 
made up its numbers to about a hundred and fifty .  

But ,  it still had an army of more than forty thousand men 
to deal with ,  and a very hard task it was to manage them .  
Before the Kings execution ,  the army had appointed some of 
its officers to remonstrate between them and the Parliament : 
and now the common soldiers began to take that office 
upon themselves .  The regiments under orders for Ireland 
mutinied  ;  one troop of horse in the city of London seized 
their own flag ,  and refused to obey orders .  For this ,  the 
ringleader was shot: which did not mend the matter ,  for ,  
both his comrades and the people made a public funeral for 
him ,  and accompanied the body to the grave with sound of 
trumpets and with a gloomy procession of persons carrying 
bundles of rosemary steeped in blood .  Oliver was the only 
man to deal with such difficulties as these ,  and he soon cut 
them short by bursting at midnight into the town of Burford ,  
near Salisbury ,  where the mutineers were sheltered ,  taking 



OLIVER CROMWELL 373 

four hundred of them prisoners ,  and shooting a number of 
them by sentence of court - martial .  The soldiers soon found ,  
as all men did ,  that Oliver was not a man to be trifled with .  
And there was an end of the mutiny .  

The Scottish Parliament did not know Oliver yet  ;  so ,  on 
hearing of the Kings execution ,  it proclaimed the Prince of 
Wales King Charles the Second ,  on condition of his respecting 
the Solemn League and Covenant .  Charles was abroad at that 
time ,  and so was Montrose ,  from whose help he had hopes 
enough to keep him holding on and off with commissioners 
from Scotland ,  just as his father might have done .  These 
hopes were soon at an end  ;  for ,  Montrose ,  having raised 
a few hundred exiles in Germany ,  and landed with them in 
Scotland ,  found that the people there ,  instead of joining him ,  
deserted the country at his approach .  He was soon taken 
prisoner and carried to Edinburgh .  There he was received 
with every possible insult ,  and carried to prison in a cart ,  
his officers going two and two before him .  He was sentenced 
by the Parliament to be hanged on a gallows thirty feet 
high ,  to have his head set on a spike in Edinburgh ,  and his 
limbs distributed in other places ,  according to the old 
barbarous manner .  He said he had always acted under the 
Koyal orders ,  and only wished he had limbs enough to be 
distributed through Christendom ,  that it might be the more 
widely known how loyal he had been .  He went to the 
scaffold in a bright and brilliant dress ,  and made a bold end 
at thirty - eight years of age .  The breath was scarcely out of 
his body when Charles abandoned his memory ,  and denied 
that he had ever given him orders to rise in his behalf .  
the family failing was strong in that Charles then  !  

Oliver had been appointed by the Parliament to command 
the army in Ireland ,  where he took a terrible vengeance for 
the sanguinary rebellion ,  and made tremendous havoc ,  
particularly in the siege of Drogheda ,  where no quarter was 
given ,  and where he found at least a thousand of the inhabi -  
tants shut up together in the great church : every one of 
whom was killed by his soldiers ,  usually known as Olivers 
Ironsides .  There were numbers of friars and priests among 
them ,  and Oliver gruffly wrote home in his despatch that 
these were  " knocked on the head  "  like the rest .  

But ,  Charles having got over to Scotland where the men 
of the Solemn League and Covenant led him a prodigiously 
dull life and made him very weary with long sermons and 



374 A CHILD S HISTORY OF ENGLAND 

grim Sundays ,  the Parliament called the redoubtable Oliver 
home to knock the Scottish men on the head for setting 
up that Prince .  Oliver left his son - in - law ,  Ireton ,  as general 
in Ireland in his stead  ( he died there afterwards )  ,  and he 
imitated the example of his father - in - law with such good will 
that he brought the country to subjection ,  and laid it at the 
feet of the Parliament .  In the end ,  they passed an act for 
the settlement of Ireland ,  generally pardoning all the common 
people ,  but exempting from this grace such of the wealthier 
sort as had been concerned in the rebellion ,  or in any killing 
of Protestants ,  or who refused to lay down their arms .  Great 
numbers of Irish were got out of the country to serve under 
Catholic powers abroad ,  and a quantity of land was declared 
to have been forfeited by past offences ,  and was given to 
people who had lent money to the Parliament early in the 
war .  These were sweeping measures  ;  but ,  if Oliver Cromwell 
had had his own way fully ,  and had stayed in Ireland ,  he 
would have done more yet .  

However ,  as I have said ,  the Parliament wanted Oliver for 
Scotland  ;  so ,  home Oliver came ,  and was made Commander 
of all the Forces of the Commonwealth of England ,  and in 
three days away he went with sixteen thousand soldiers to 
fight the Scottish men .  Now ,  the Scottish men ,  being then 
— as you will generally find them now — mighty cautious ,  
reflected that the troops they had ,  were not used to war like 
the Ironsides ,  and would be beaten in an open fight .  There -  
fore they said ,   " If we live quiet in our trenches in Edinburgh 
here ,  and if all the farmers come into the town and desert 
the country ,  the Ironsides will be driven out by iron hunger 
and be forced to go away .  "  This was ,  no doubt ,  the wisest 
plan  ;  but as the Scottish clergy would interfere with what 
they knew nothing about ,  and Avould perpetually preach long 
sermons exhorting the soldiers to come out and fight ,  the 
soldiers got it in their heads that they absolutely must come 
out and fight .  Accordingly ,  in an evil hour for themselves ,  
they came out of their safe position .  Oliver fell upon them 
instantly ,  and killed three thousand ,  and took ten thousand 
prisoners .  

To gratify the Scottish Parliament ,  and preserve their 
favour ,  Charles had signed a declaration they laid before him ,  
reproaching the memory of his father and mother ,  and 
representing himself as a most religious Prince ,  to whom the 
Solemn League and Covenant was as dear as life .  He meant 



OLIVER CROMWELL 375 

no sort of truth in this ,  and soon afterwards galloped away 
on horseback to join some tiresome Highland friends ,  who 
were always flourishing dirks and broadswords .  He was over -  
taken and induced to return  ;  but this attempt ,  which was 
called  "  The Start ,  "  did him just so much service ,  that they 
did not preach quite such long sermons at him afterwards 
as they had done before .  

On the first of January ,  one thousand six hundred and 
fifty - one ,  the Scottish people crowned him at Scone .  He 
immediately took the chief command of an army of twenty 
thousand men ,  and marched to Stirling .  His hopes were 
heightened ,  I dare say ,  by the redoubtable Oliver being ill 
of an ague  ;  but Oliver scrambled out of bed in no time ,  
and went to work with such energy that he got behind the 
Koyalist army and cut it off from all communication with 
Scotland .  There was nothing for it then ,  but to go on to 
England  ;  so it went on as far as Worcester ,  where the mayor 
and some of the gentry proclaimed King Charles the Second 
straightway .  His proclamation ,  however ,  was of little use to 
him ,  for very few Royalists appeared  ;  and ,  on the very same 
day ,  two people were publicly beheaded on Tower Hill for 
espousing his cause .  Up came Oliver to Worcester too ,  at 
double quick speed ,  and he and his Ironsides so laid about 
them in the great battle which was fought there ,  that they 
completely beat the Scottish men ,  and destroyed the Royalist 
army  ;  though the Scottish men fought so gallantly that it 
took five hours to do .  

The escape of Charles after this battle of Worcester did 
him good service long afterwards ,  for it induced many of the 
generous English people to take a romantic interest in him ,  
and to think much better of him than he ever deserved .  He 
fled in the night ,  with not more than sixty followers ,  to 
the house of a Catholic lady in Staffordshire .  There ,  for 
his greater safety ,  the whole sixty left him .  He cropped his 
hair ,  stained his face and hands brown as if they were sunburnt ,  
put on the clothes of a labouring countryman ,  and went out 
in the morning with his axe in his hand ,  accompanied by 
four wood - cutters who were brothers ,  and another man who 
was their brother - in - law .  These good fellows made a bed 
for him under a tree ,  as the weather was very bad  ;  and the 
wife of one of them brought him food to eat  ;  and the old 
mother of the four brothers came and fell down on her 
knees before him in the wood ,  and thanked God that her 



376 A CHILD S HISTORY OF ENGLAND 

sons were engaged in saving his life .  At night ,  he came 
out of the forest and went on to another house which was 
near the river Severn ,  with the intention of passing into 
Wales  ;  but the place swarmed with soldiers ,  and the bridges 
were guarded ,  and all the boats were made fast .  So ,  after 
lying in a hayloft covered over with hay ,  for some time ,  
he came out of his place ,  attended by Colonel Careless ,  a 
Catholic gentleman who had met him there ,  and with whom 
he lay hid ,  all next day ,  up in the shady branches of a fine 
old oak .  It was lucky for the King that it was September -  
time ,  and that the leaves had not begun to fall ,  since he and 
the Colonel ,  perched up in this tree ,  could catch glimpses 
of the soldiers riding about below ,  and could hear the crash 
in the wood as they went about beating the boughs .  

After this ,  he walked and walked until his feet were all 
blistered  ;  and ,  having been concealed all one day in a house 
which was searched by the troopers while he was there ,  went 
with Lord Wilmot ,  another of his good friends ,  to a place 
called Bentley ,  where one Miss Lane ,  a Protestant lady ,  had 
obtained a pass to be allowed to ride through the guards to 
see a relation of hers near Bristol .  Disguised as a servant ,  
he rode in the saddle before this young lady to the house 
of Sir John Winter ,  while Lord Wilmot rode there boldly ,  
like a plain country gentleman ,  with dogs at his heels .  It 
happened that Sir John Winters butler had been servant 
in Richmond Palace ,  and knew Charles the moment he set 
eyes upon him  ;  but ,  the butler was faithful and kept the 
secret .  As no ship could be found to carry him abroad ,  it 
was planned that he should go — still travelling with Miss 
Lane as her servant — to another house ,  at Trent near Sher -  
borne in Dorsetshire  ;  and then Miss Lane and her cousin ,  
Mr .  Lascelles ,  who had gone on horseback beside her all 
the way ,  went home .  I hope Miss Lane was going to many 
that cousin ,  for I am sure she must have been a brave kind 
girl .  If I had been that cousin ,  I should certainly have loved 
Miss Lane .  

When Charles ,  lonely for the loss of Miss Lane ,  was safe 
at Trent ,  a ship was hired at Lyme ,  the master of which 
engaged to take two gentlemen to France .  In the evening 
of the same day ,  the King — now riding as servant before 
another young lady — set off for a public - house at a place 
called Charmouth ,  where the captain of the vessel was to 
take him on board .  But ,  the captains wife ,  being afraid of 



OLIVER CROMWELL 377 

her husband getting into trouble ,  locked him up and would 
not let him sail .  Then they went away to Bridport  ;  and ,  
coming to the inn there ,  found the stable - yard full of soldiers 
who were on the look - out for Charles ,  and who talked about 
him while they drank .  He had such presence of mind ,  that 
he led the horses of his party through the yard as any other 
servant might have done ,  and said ,   "  Come out of the way ,  
you soldiers  ;  let us have room to pass here  !   "  As he went 
along ,  he met a half - tipsy ostler ,  who rubbed his eyes and 
said to him ,   " Why ,  I was formerly servant to Mr .  Potter 
at Exeter ,  and surely I have sometimes seen you there ,  young 
man ?  "  He certainly had ,  for Charles had lodged there .  
His ready answer was ,   "  Ah ,  I did live with him once  ;  but 
I have no time to talk now .  Well have a pot of beer 
together when I come back .  "  

From this dangerous place he returned to Trent ,  and lay 
there concealed several days .  Then he escaped to Heale ,  
near Salisbury  ;  where ,  in the house of a widow lady ,  he was 
hidden five days ,  until the master of a collier lying off Shore -  
ham in Sussex ,  undertook to convey a  "  gentleman  "  to 
France .  On the night of the fifteenth of October ,  accom -  
panied by two colonels and a merchant ,  the King rode to 
Brighton ,  then a little fishing village ,  to give the captain of 
the ship a supper before going on board  ;  but ,  so many 
people knew him ,  that this captain knew him too ,  and not 
only he ,  but the landlord and landlady also .  Before he went 
away ,  the landlord came behind his chair ,  kissed his hand ,  
and said he hoped to live to be a lord and to see his wife 
a lady  ;  at which Charles laughed .  They had had a good 
supper by this time ,  and plenty of smoking and drinking ,  
at which the King was a first - rate hand  ;  so ,  the captain 
assured him that he would stand by him ,  and he did .  It 
was agreed that the captain should pretend to sail to Deal ,  
and that Charles should address the sailors and say he was 
a gentleman in debt who was running away from his 
creditors ,  and that he hoped they would join him in per -  
suading the captain to put him ashore in France .  As the 
King acted his part very well indeed ,  and gave the sailors 
twenty shillings to drink ,  they begged the captain to do 
what such a worthy gentleman asked .  He pretended to 
yield to their entreaties ,  and the King got safe to Nor -  
mandy .  

Ireland being now subdued ,  and Scotland kept quiet by 



378 A CHILDS HISTORY OF ENGLAND 

plenty of forts and soldiers put there by Oliver ,  the Parlia -  
ment would have gone on quietly enough ,  as far as fighting 
with any foreign enemy went ,  but for getting into trouble 
with the Dutch ,  who in the spring of the year one thousand 
six hundred and fifty - one sent a fleet into the Downs under 
their Admiral Van Tromp ,  to call upon the bold English 
Admiral Blake  ( who was there with half as many ships as 
the Dutch )  to strike his flag .  Blake fired a raging broadside 
instead ,  and beat off Van Tromp  ;  who ,  in the autumn ,  came 
back again with seventy ships ,  and challenged the bold Blake 
— who still was only half as strong — to fight him .  Blake 
fought him all day  ;  but ,  finding that the Dutch were too 
many for him ,  got quietly off at night .   " What does Van 
Tromp upon this ,  but goes cruising and boasting about the 
Channel ,  between the North Foreland and the Isle of Wight ,  
with a great Dutch broom tied to his masthead ,  as a sign 
that he could and would sweep the English off the sea  !  
Within three months ,  Blake lowered his tone though ,  and 
his broom too  ;  for ,  he and two other bold commanders ,  
Dean and Monk ,  fought him three whole days ,  took twenty -  
three of his ships ,  shivered his broom to pieces ,  and settled 
his business .  

Things were no sooner quiet again ,  than the army began 
to complain to the Parliament that they were not governing 
the nation properly ,  and to hint that they thought they 
could do it better themselves .  Oliver ,  who had now made 
up his mind to be the head of the state ,  or nothing at all ,  
supported them in this ,  and called a meeting of officers and 
his own Parliamentary friends ,  at his lodgings in Whitehall ,  
to consider the best way of getting rid of the Parliament .  
It had now lasted just as many years as the Kings unbridled 
power had lasted ,  before it came into existence .  The end of 
the deliberation was ,  that Oliver went down to the House 
in his usual plain black dress ,  with his usual grey worsted 
stockings ,  but with an unusual party of soldiers behind him .  
These last he left in the lobby ,  and then went in and sat 
down .  Presently he got up ,  made the Parliament a speech ,  
told them that the Lord had done with them ,  stamped his 
foot and said ,   "  You are no Parliament .  Bring them in  !  
Bring them in  !   "  At this signal the door flew open ,  and the 
soldiers appeared .  This is not honest ,  "  said Sir Harry 
Vane ,  one of the members .   "  Sir Harry Vane  !   "  cried 
Cromwell  ;   "  O ,  Sir Harry Vane  !  The Lord deliver me from 



OLIVER CROMWELL 379 

Sir Harry Vane  !   "  Then he pointed out members one by 
one ,  and said this man was a drunkard ,  and that man a dis -  
sipated fellow ,  and that man a liar ,  and so on .  Then he 
caused the Speaker to be walked out of his chair ,  told the 
guard to clear the House ,  called the mace upon the table — 
which is a sign that the House is sitting —  " a fools bauble ,  "  
and said ,   " here ,  cany it away  !   "  Being obeyed in all these 
orders ,  he quietly locked the door ,  put the key in his pocket ,  
walked back to Whitehall again ,  and told his friends ,  who 
were still assembled there ,  what he had done .  

They formed a new Council of State after this extra -  
ordinary proceeding ,  and got a new Parliament together in 
their own way : which Oliver himself opened in a sort of 
sermon ,  and which he said was the beginning of a perfect 
heaven upon earth .  In this Parliament there sat a well -  
known leather -  seller ,  who had taken the singular name 
of Praise God Barebones ,  and from whom it was called ,  for 
a joke ,  Bareboness Parliament ,  though its general name was 
the Little Parliament .  As it soon appeared that it was 
not going to put Oliver in the first place ,  it turned out to 
be not at all like the beginning of heaven upon earth ,  and 
Oliver said it really was not to be borne with .  So he cleared 
off that Parliament in much the same way as he had disposed 
of the other  ;  and then the council of officers decided that he 
must be made the supreme authority of the kingdom ,  under 
the title of the Lord Protector of the Commonwealth .  

So ,  on the sixteenth of December ,  one thousand six 
hundred and fifty - three ,  a great procession was formed at 
Olivers door ,  and he came out in a black velvet suit and 
a big pair of boots ,  and got into his coach and went down to 
Westminster ,  attended by the judges ,  and the lord mayor ,  
and the aldermen ,  and all the other great and wonderful 
personages of the country .  There ,  in the Court of Chancery ,  
he publicly accepted the office of Lord Protector .  Then he 
was sworn ,  and the City sword was handed to him ,  and the 
seal was handed to him ,  and all the other things were 
handed to him which are usually handed to Kings and 
Queens on state occasions .  When Oliver had handed them 
all back ,  he was quite made and completely finished off as 
Lord Protector  ;  and several of the Ironsides preached about 
it at great length ,  all the evening .  



380 A CHILDS HISTORY OF ENGLAND 

Second Part .  

Oliver Cromwell — whom the people long called Old Noll — 
in accepting the office of Protector ,  had bound himself by 
a certain paper which was handed to him ,  called  " the Instru -  
ment ,  "  to summon a Parliament ,  consisting of between four 
and five hundred members ,  in the election of which neither 
the Eoyalists nor the Catholics were to have any share .  He 
had also pledged himself that this Parliament should not 
be dissolved without its own consent until it had sat five 
months .  

When this Parliament met ,  Oliver made a speech to them 
of three hours long ,  very wisely advising them what to do 
for the credit and happiness of the country .  To keep down 
the more violent members ,  he required them to sign a recog -  
nition of what they were forbidden by  "  the Instrument  "  
to do  ;  which was ,  chiefly ,  to take the power from one single 
person at the head of the state or to command the army .  
Then he dismissed them to go to work .  With his usual 
vigour and resolution he went to work himself with some 
frantic preachers — who were rather overdoing their sermons 
in calling him a villain and a tyrant — by shutting up their 
chapels ,  and sending a few of them off to prison .  

There was not at that time ,  in England or anywhere else ,  
a man so able to govern the country as Oliver Cromwell .  
Although he ruled with a strong hand ,  and levied a very 
heavy tax on the Royalists  ( but not until they had plotted 
against his life )  ,  he ruled wisely ,  and as the times required .  
He caused England to be so respected abroad ,  that I wish 
some lords and gentlemen who have governed it under kings 
and queens in later days would have taken a leaf out of 
Oliver Cromwells book .  He sent bold Admiral Blake to 
the Mediterranean Sea ,  to make the Duke of Tuscan )  pay 
sixty thousand pounds for injuries he had done to British 
subjects ,  and spoliation he had committed on English mer -  
chants .  He further despatched him and his fleet to Algiers ,  
Tunis ,  and Tripoli ,  to have every English ship and every 
English man delivered up to him that had been taken by 
pirates in those parts .  All this was gloriously done  ;  and 
it began to be thoroughly well known ,  all over the world ,  
that England was governed by a man in earnest ,  who would 
not allow the English name to be insulted or slighted any -  
where .  



OLIVER CROMWELL 381 

These were not all his foreign triumphs .  He sent a fleet 
to sea against the Dutch  ;  and the two powers ,  each with 
one hundred ships upon its side ,  met in the English Channel 
off the North Foreland ,  where the fight lasted all day long .  
Dean was killed in this fight  ;  but Monk ,  who commanded 
in the same ship with him ,  threw his cloak over his body ,  
that the sailors might not know of his death ,  and be dis -  
heartened .  Nor were they .  The English broadsides so 
exceedingly astonished the Dutch that they sheered off at 
last ,  though the redoubtable Van Tromp fired upon them 
with his own guns for deserting their flag .  Soon afterwards ,  
the two fleets engaged again ,  off the coast of Holland .  There ,  
the valiant Van Tromp was shot through the heart ,  and the 
Dutch gave in ,  and peace was made .  

Further than this ,  Oliver resolved not to bear the domi -  
neering and bigoted conduct of Spain ,  which country not 
only claimed a right to all the gold and silver that could be 
found in South America ,  and treated the ships of all other 
countries who visited those regions ,  as pirates ,  but put 
English subjects into the horrible Spanish prisons of the 
Inquisition .  So Oliver told the Spanish ambassador that 
English ships must be free to go wherever they would ,  and 
that English merchants must not be thrown into those same 
dungeons ,  no ,  not for the pleasure of all the priests in Spain .  
To this the Spanish ambassador replied that the gold and 
silver countiy ,  and the Holy Inquisition ,  were his Kings 
two eyes ,  neither of which he could submit to have put out .  
Very well ,  said Oliver ,  then he was afraid he  ( Oliver )  must 
damage those two eyes directly .  

So ,  another fleet was despatched under two commanders ,  
Penn and Venaeles ,  for Hispaniola  ;  where ,  however ,  the 
Spaniards got the better of the fight .  Consequently ,  the 
fleet came home again ,  after taking Jamaica on the way .  
Oliver ,  indignant with the two commanders who had not 
done what bold Admiral Blake would have done ,  clapped 
them both into prison ,  declared war against Spain ,  and 
made a treaty with France ,  in virtue of which it was to 
shelter the King and his brother the Duke of York no 
longer .  Then ,  he sent a fleet abroad under bold Admiral 
Blake ,  which brought the King of Portugal to his senses — 
just to keep its hand in — and then engaged a Spanish fleet ,  
sunk four great ships ,  and took two more ,  laden with silver 
to the value of two millions of pounds : which dazzling 



382 A CHILDS HISTORY OF ENGLAND 

prize was brought from Portsmouth to London in waggons ,  
with the populace of all the towns and villages through 
which the waggons passed ,  shouting with all their might .  
After this victory ,  bold Admiral Blake sailed away to the 
port of Santa Cruz to cut off the Spanish treasure - ships 
coming from Mexico .  There ,  he found them ,  ten in num -  
ber ,  with seven others to take care of them ,  and a big castle ,  
and seven batteries ,  all roaring and blazing away at him 
with great guns .  Blake cared no more for great guns than 
for pop - guns — no more for their hot iron balls than for 
snow - balls .  He dashed into the harbour ,  captured and 
burnt every one of the ships ,  and came sailing out again 
triumphantly ,  with the victorious English flag flying at his 
masthead .  This was the last triumph of this great com -  
mander ,  who had sailed and fought until he was quite worn 
out .  He died ,  as his successful ship was coming into Ply -  
mouth Harbour amidst the joyful acclamations of the people ,  
and was buried in state in Westminster Abbey .  Not to lie 
there ,  long .  

Over and above all this ,  Oliver found that the Vaudois ,  
or Protestant people of the valleys of Lucerne ,  were inso -  
lently treated by the Catholic powers ,  and were even put to 
death for their religion ,  in an audacious and bloody man -  
ner .  Instantly ,  he informed those powers that this was 
a thing which Protestant England would not allow  ;  and he 
speedily carried his point ,  through the might of his great 
name ,  and established their right to worship God in peace 
after their own harmless manner .  

Lastly ,  his English army won such admiration in fighting 
with the French against the Spaniards ,  that ,  after they had 
assaulted the town of Dunkirk together ,  the French King in 
person gave it up to the English ,  that it might be a token 
to them of their might and valour .  

There were plots enough against Oliver among the frantic 
religionists  ( who called themselves Fifth Monarchy Men )  ,  
and among the disappointed Republicans .  He had a diffi -  
cult game to play ,  for the Royalists were always ready to 
side with either party against him .  The  "  King over the 
water ,  "  too ,  as Charles was called ,  had no scruples about 
plotting with any one against his life  ;  although there is 
reason to suppose that he would willingly have married one 
of his daughters ,  if Oliver would have had such a son - in - law .  
There was a certain Colonel Saxby of the army ,  once a 



OLIVER CROMWELL 383 

great supporter of Olivers but now turned against him ,  who 
was a grievous trouble to him through all this part of his 
career  ;  and who came and went between the discontented 
in England and Spain ,  and Charles who put himself in 
alliance with Spain on being thrown off by France .  This 
man died in prison at last  ;  but not until there had been 
very serious plots between the Eoyalists and Eepublicans ,  
and an actual rising of them in England ,  when they burst 
into the city of Salisbury ,  on a Sunday night ,  seized the 
judges who were going to hold the assizes there next 
day ,  and would have hanged them but for the merciful 
objections of the more temperate of their number .  Oliver 
was so vigorous and shrewd that he soon put this revolt 
down ,  as he did most other conspiracies  ;  and it was well 
for one of its chief managers — that same Lord Wilmot 
who had assisted in Charless flight ,  and was now Earl 
op Rochester — that he made his escape .  Oliver seemed to 
have eyes and ears everywhere ,  and secured such sources of 
information as his enemies little dreamed of .  There was a 
chosen body of six persons ,  called the Sealed Knot ,  who were 
in the closest and most secret confidence of Charles .  One of 
the foremost of these very men ,  a Sir Richard Willis ,  re -  
ported to Oliver everything that passed among them ,  and 
had two hundred a year for it .  

Miles Syndarcomb ,  also of the old army ,  was another 
conspirator against the Protector .  He and a man named 
Cecil ,  bribed one of his Life Guards to let them have good 
notice when he was going out — intending to shoot him from 
a window .  But ,  owing either to his caution or his good 
fortune ,  they could never get an aim at him .  Disappointed 
in this design ,  they got into the chapel in Whitehall ,  with 
a basketful of combustibles ,  which were to explode by means 
of a slow match in six hours  ;  then ,  in the noise and con -  
fusion of the fire ,  they hoped to kill Oliver .  But ,  the Life 
Guardsman himself disclosed this plot  ;  and they were 
seized ,  and Miles died  ( or killed himself in prison )  a little 
while before he was ordered for execution .  A few such 
plotters Oliver caused to be beheaded ,  a few more to be 
hanged ,  and many more ,  including those who rose in arms 
against him ,  to be sent as slaves to the West Indies .  If he 
were rigid ,  he was impartial too ,  in asserting the laws of 
England .  When a Portuguese nobleman ,  the brother of 
the Portuguese ambassador ,  killed a London citizen in mis -  



384 A CHILDS HISTORY OF ENGLAND 

take for another man with whom ,  he had had a quarrel ,  
Oliver caused him to be tried before a jury of Englishmen 
and foreigners ,  and had him executed in spite of the en -  
treaties of all the ambassadors in London .  

One of Olivers own friends ,  the Duke of Oldenburgh ,  in 
sending him a present of six fine coach - horses ,  was very near 
doing more to please the Eoyalists than all the plotters put 
together .  One day ,  Oliver went with his coach ,  drawn by 
these six horses ,  into Hyde Park ,  to dine with his secretary 
and some of his other gentlemen under the trees there .  
After dinner ,  being merry ,  he took it into his head to put 
his friends inside and to drive them home : a postillion riding 
one of the foremost horses ,  as the custom was .  On account 
of Olivers being too free with the whip ,  the six fine horses 
went off at a gallop ,  the postillion got thrown ,  and Oliver fell 
upon the coach - pole and narrowly escaped being shot by his 
own pistol ,  which got entangled with his clothes in the harness ,  
and went off .  He was dragged some distance by the foot ,  
until his foot came out of the shoe ,  and then he came safely 
to the ground under the broad body of the coach ,  and was 
very little the worse .  The gentlemen inside were only 
bruised ,  and the discontented people of all parties were 
much disappointed .  

The rest of the history of the Protectorate of Oliver 
Cromwell is a history of his Parliaments .  His first one not 
pleasing him at all ,  he waited until the five months were 
out ,  and then dissolved it .  The next was better suited to 
his views  ;  and from that he desired to get — if he could with 
safety to himself — the title of King .  He had had this in 
his mind some time : whether because he thought that the 
English people ,  being more used to the title ,  were more likely 
to obey it  ;  or whether because he really wished to be a 
king himself ,  and to leave the succession to that title in 
his family ,  is far from clear .  He was already as high ,  in 
England and in all the world ,  as he would ever be ,  and 
I doubt if he cared for the mere name .  However ,  a paper ,  
called the  " Humble Petition and Advice ,  "  was presented to 
him by the House of Commons ,  praying him to take a high 
title and to appoint his successor .  That he would have 
taken the title of King there is no doubt ,  but for the strong 
opposition of the army .  This induced him to forbear ,  and 
to assent only to the other points of the petition .  Upon 
which occasion there was another grand show in Westminster 



OLIVER CROMWELL 385 

Hall ,  when the Speaker of the House of Commons formally 
invested him with a purple robe lined with ermine ,  and pre -  
sented him with a splendidly bound Bible ,  and put a golden 
sceptre in his hand .  The next time the Parliament met ,  he 
called a House of Lords of sixty members ,  as the petition 
gave him power to do  ;  but as that Parliament did not 
please him either ,  and would not proceed to the business of 
the country ,  he jumped into a coach one morning ,  took six 
Guards with him ,  and sent them to the right - about .  I wish 
this had been a warning to Parliaments to avoid long 
speeches ,  and do more work .  

It was the month of August ,  one thousand six hundred 
and fifty - eight ,  when Oliver Cromwells favourite daughter ,  
Elizabeth Claypole  ( who had lately lost her youngest son )  ,  
lay very ill ,  and his mind was greatly troubled ,  because he 
loved her dearly .  Another of his daughters was married to 
Lord Falconberg ,  another to the grandson of the Earl of 
Warwick ,  and he had made his son Eichard one of the 
Members of the Upper House .  He was very kind and loving 
to them all ,  being a good father and a good husband  ;  but 
he loved this daughter the best of the family ,  and went down 
to Hampton Court to see her ,  and could hardly be induced 
to stir from her sick room until she died .  Although his 
religion had been of a gloomy kind ,  his disposition had been 
always cheerful .  He had been fond of music in his home ,  
and had kept open table once a week for all officers of the 
army not below the rank of captain ,  and had always pre -  
served in his house a quiet sensible dignity .  He encouraged 
men of genius and learning ,  and loved to have them about 
him .  Milton was one of his great friends .  He was good 
humoured too ,  with the nobility ,  whose dresses and manners 
were very different from his  ;  and to show them what good 
information he had ,  he would sometimes jokingly tell them 
when they were his guests ,  where they had last drunk the 
health of the  "  King over the water ,  "  and would recom -  
mend them to be more private  ( if they could )  another 
time .  But he had lived in busy times ,  had borne the 
weight of heavy State affairs ,  and had often gone in fear of 
his life .  He was ill of the gout and ague  ;  and when the 
death of his beloved child came upon him in addition ,  he 
sank ,  never to raise his head again .  He told his physicians 
on the twenty - fourth of August that the Lord had assured 
him that he was not to die in that illness ,  and that he would 
i .  cc 



386 A CHILDS HISTORY OF ENGLAND 

certainly get better .  This was only his sick fancy ,  for on 
the third of September ,  which was the anniversary of the 
great battle of Worcester ,  and the day of the year which he 
called his fortunate day ,  he died ,  in the sixtieth year of his 
age .  He had been delirious ,  and had lain insensible some 
hours ,  but he had been overheard to murmur a very good 
prayer the day before .  The whole country lamented his 
death .  If you want to know the real worth of Oliver 
Cromwell ,  and his real services to his country ,  you can 
hardly do better than compare England under him ,  with 
England under Charles the Second .  

He had appointed his son Richard to succeed him ,  and 
after there had been ,  at Somerset House in the Strand ,  
a lying in state more splendid than sensible — as all such 
vanities after death are ,  I think — Richard became Lord 
Protector .  He was an amiable country gentleman ,  but had 
none of his fathers great genius ,  and was quite unfit for 
such a post in such a storm of parties .  Richards Pro -  
tectorate ,  which only lasted a year and a half ,  is a history of 
quarrels between the officers of the army and the Parliament ,  
and between the officers among themselves  ;  and of a growing 
discontent among the people ,  who had far too many long 
sermons and far too few amusements ,  and wanted a change .  
At last ,  General Monk got the army well into his own hands ,  
and then in pursuance of a secret plan he seems to have 
entertained from the time of Olivers death ,  declared for the 
Kings cause .  He did not do this openly  ;  but ,  in his place 
in the House of Commons ,  as one of the members for 
Devonshire ,  strongly advocated the proposals of one Sir 
John Greenville ,  who came to the House with a letter 
from Charles ,  dated from Breda ,  and with whom he had 
previously been in secret communication .  There had been 
plots and counterplots ,  and a recall of the last members of 
the Long Parliament ,  and an end of the Long Parliament ,  
and risings of the Royalists that were made too soon  ;  and 
most men being tired out ,  and there being no one to head 
the country now great Oliver was dead ,  it was readily 
agreed to welcome Charles Stuart .  Some of the wiser 
and better members said — what was most true— that in 
the letter from Breda ,  he gave no real promise to govern 
well ,  and that it would be best to make him pledge him -  
self beforehand as to what he should be bound to do for 
the benefit of the kingdom .  Monk said ,  however ,  it would 



OLIVER CROMWELL 387 

be all right when he came ,  and he could not come too 
soon .  

So ,  everybody found out all in a moment that the country 
must be prosperous and happy ,  having another Stuart to 
condescend to reign over it  ;  and there was a prodigious 
firing off of guns ,  lighting of bonfires ,  ringing of bells ,  and 
throwing up of caps .  The people drank the Kings health 
by thousands in the open streets ,  and everybody rejoiced .  
Down came the Arms of the Commonwealth ,  up went the 
Royal Arms instead ,  and out came the public money .  Fifty 
thousand pounds for the King ,  ten thousand pounds for his 
brother the Duke of York ,  five thousand pounds for his 
brother the Duke of Gloucester .  Prayers for these gracious 
Stuarts were put up in all the churches  ;  commissioners 
were sent to Holland  ( which suddenly found out that Charles 
was a great man ,  and that it loved him )  to invite the King -  
home  ;  Monk and the Kentish grandees went to Dover ,  to 
kneel down before him as he landed .  He kissed and em -  
braced Monk ,  made him ride in the coach with himself and 
his brothers ,  came on to London amid wonderful shoutings ,  
and passed through the army at Blackheath on the twenty -  
ninth of May  ( his birthday )  ,  in the year one thousand six 
hundred and sixty .  Greeted by splendid dinners under 
tents ,  by flags and tapestry streaming from all the houses ,  
by delighted crowds in all the streets ,  by troops of noblemen 
and gentlemen in rich dresses ,  by City companies ,  train -  
bands ,  drummers ,  trumpeters ,  the great Lord Mayor ,  and 
the majestic Aldermen ,  the King went on to Whitehall .  
On entering it ,  he commemorated his Restoration with the 
joke that it really would seem to have been his own fault 
that he had not come long ago ,  since everybody told him 
that he had always wished for him with all his heart .  



CHAPTER XXXV 

ENGLAND UNDER CHARLES THE SECOND .  CALLED THE 

MERRY MONARCH 

There never were such profligate times in England as under 
Charles the Second .  Whenever you see his portrait ,  with 
his swarthy ill - looking face and great nose ,  you may fancy 
him in his Court at Whitehall ,  surrounded by some of the 
very worst vagabonds in the kingdom  ( though they were 
lords and ladies )  ,  drinking ,  gambling ,  indulging in vicious 
conversation ,  and committing every kind of profligate excess .  
It has been a fashion to call Charles the Second  " The 
Merry Monarch .  "  Let me try to give you a general idea of 
some of the merry things that were done ,  in the merry days 
when this merry gentleman sat upon his merry throne ,  in 
merry England .  

The first merry proceeding was — of course — to declare 
that he was one of the greatest ,  the wisest ,  and the noblest 
kings that ever shone ,  like the blessed sun itself ,  on this 
benighted earth .  The next merry and pleasant piece of 
business was ,  for the Parliament ,  in the humblest manner ,  
to give him one million two hundred thousand pounds a year ,  
and to settle upon him for life that old disputed tonnage and 
poundage which had been so bravely fought for .  Then ,  
General Monk being made Earl of Albemarle ,  and a few 
other Royalists similarly rewarded ,  the law went to work to 
see what was to be done to those persons  ( they were called 
Regicides )  who had been concerned in making a martyr of 
the late King .  Ten of these were merrily executed  ;  that is 
to say ,  six of the judges ,  one of the council ,  Colonel Hacker 
and another officer who had commanded the Guards ,  and 
Hugh Peters ,  a preacher who had preached against the 
martyr with all his heart .  These executions were so ex -  
tremely merry ,  that every horrible circumstance which 
Cromwell had abandoned was revived with appalling cruelty .  
The hearts of the sufferers were torn out of their living 



CHARLES THE SECOND 389 

bodies  ;  their bowels were burned before their faces  ;  the 
executioner cut jokes to the next victim ,  as he rubbed his 
filthy hands together ,  that were reeking with the blood of 
the last  ;  and the heads of the dead were drawn on sledges 
with the living to the place of suffering .  Still ,  even so 
merry a monarch could not force one of these dying men to 
say that he was sorry for what he had done .  Nay ,  the most 
memorable thing said among them was ,  that if the thing 
were to do again they would do it .  

Sir Harry Vane ,  who had furnished the evidence against 
Strafford ,  and was one of the most staunch of the Republicans ,  
was also tried ,  found guilty ,  and ordered for execution .  
When he came upon the scaffold on Tower Hill ,  after 
conducting his own defence with great power ,  his notes of 
what he had meant to say to the people were torn away from 
him ,  and the drums and trumpets were ordered to sound 
lustily and drown his voice ;  for ,  the people had been so 
much impressed by what the Regicides had calmly said with 
their last breath ,  that it was the custom now ,  to have the 
drums and trumpets always under the scaffold ,  ready to 
strike up .  Vane said no more than this :  "  It is .  a bad 
cause which cannot bear the words of a dying man :  "  and 
bravely died .  

These merry scenes were succeeded by another ,  perhaps 
even merrier .  On the anniversary of the late Kings death ,  
the bodies of Oliver Cromwell ,  Ireton ,  and Bradshaw ,  were 
torn out of their graves in Westminster Abbey ,  dragged to 
Tyburn ,  hanged there on a gallows all day long ,  and then 
beheaded .  Imagine the head of Oliver Cromwell set upon 
a pole to be stared at by a brutal crowd ,  not one of whom 
would have dared to look the living Oliver in the face for 
half a moment  !  Think ,  after you have read this reign ,  what 
England was under Oliver Cromwell who was torn out of 
his grave ,  and what it was under this merry monarch who 
sold it ,  like a merry Judas ,  over and over again .  

Of course ,  the remains of Olivers wife and daughter were 
not to be spared either ,  though they had been most excellent 
women .  The base clergy of that time gave up their bodies ,  
which had been buried in the Abbey ,  and — to the eternal 
disgrace of England — they were thrown into a pit ,  together 
with the mouldering bones of Pym and of the brave and bold 
old Admiral Blake .  

The clergy acted this disgraceful part because they hoped 



390 A GUILDS HISTORY OF ENGLAND 

to get the nonconformists ,  or dissenters ,  thoroughly put down 
in this reign ,  and to have but one prayer - book and one 
service for all kinds of people ,  no matter what their private 
opinions were .  This was pretty well ,  I think ,  for a Protestant 
Church ,  which had displaced the Romish Church because 
people had a right to their own opinions in religious matters .  
However ,  they carried it with a high hand ,  and a prayer -  
book was agreed upon ,  in which the extremest opinions of 
Archbishop Laud were not forgotten .  An Act was passed ,  
too ,  preventing any dissenter from holding any office under 
any corporation .  So ,  the regular clergy in their triumph 
were soon as merry as the King .  The army being by this 
time disbanded ,  and the King crowned ,  everything was to go 
on easily for evermore .  

I must say a word here about the Kings family .  He had 
not been long upon the throne when his brother the Duke 
of Gloucester ,  and his sister the Princess op Orange ,  died 
within a few months of each other ,  of small - pox .  His 
remaining sister ,  the Princess Henrietta ,  married the Duke 
of Orleans ,  the brother of Louis the Fourteenth ,  King 
of France .  His brother James ,  Duke of York ,  was made 
High Admiral ,  and by - and - by became a Catholic .  He was 
a gloomy sullen bilious sort of man ,  with a remarkable 
partiality for the ugliest women in the country .  He married ,  
under very discreditable circumstances ,  Anne Hyde ,  the 
daughter of Lord Clarendon ,  then the Kings principal 
Minister — not at all a delicate minister either ,  but doing 
much of the dirty work of a very dirty palace .  It became 
important now that the King himself should be married  ;  
and divers foreign Monarchs ,  not very particular about the 
character of their son - in - law ,  proposed their daughters to 
him .  The King of Portugal offered his daughter ,  Catherine 
of Braganza ,  and fifty thousand pounds: in addition to 
Avhich ,  the French King ,  who was favourable to that match ,  
offered a loan of another fifty thousand .  The King of Spain ,  
on the other hand ,  offered any one out of a dozen of Prin -  
cesses ,  and other hopes of gain .  But the ready money carried 
the day ,  and Catherine came over in state to her merry 
marriage .  

The whole Court was a great flaunting crowd of debauched 
men and shameless women  ;  and Catherines merry husband 
insulted and outraged her in every possible way .  until she 
consented to receive those worthless creatures as her very 



CHARLES THE SECOND 39I 

good friends ,  and to degrade herself by their companionship .  
A Mrs .  Palmer ,  whom the King made Lady Castlemaine ,  
and afterwards Duchess of Cleveland ,  was one of the most 
powerful of the bad women about the Court ,  and had great 
influence with the King nearly all through his reign .  An -  
other merry lady named Moll Davies ,  a dancer at the theatre ,  
was afterwards her rival .  So was Nell Gwyn ,  first an 
orange girl and then an actress ,  who really had good in her ,  
and of whom one of the worst things I know is ,  that actually 
she does seem to have been fond of the King .  The first 
Duke of St .  Albans was this orange girls child .  In like 
manner the son of a merry waiting - lady ,  whom the King 
created Duchess of Portsmouth ,  became the Duke of Rich -  
mond .  Upon the whole it is not so bad a thing to be a 
commoner .  

The Merry Monarch was so exceedingly merry among these 
merry ladies ,  and some equally merry  ( and equally infamous )  
lords and gentlemen ,  that he soon got through his hundred 
thousand pounds ,  and then ,  by way of raising a little pocket -  
money ,  made a merry bargain .  He sold Dunkirk to the 
French King for five millions of livres .  When I think of 
the dignity to which Oliver Cromwell raised England in the 
eyes of foreign powers ,  and when I think of the manner in 
which he gained for England this very Dunkirk ,  I am much 
inclined to consider that if the Merry Monarch had been 
made to follow his father for this action ,  he would have 
received his just deserts .  

Though he was like his father in none of that fathers 
greater qualities ,  he was like him in being worthy of no 
trust .  When he sent that letter to the Parliament ,  from 
Breda ,  he did expressly promise that all sincere religious 
opinions should be respected .  Yet he was no sooner firm in 
his power than he consented to one of the worst Acts of 
Parliament ever passed .  Under this law ,  every minister who 
should not give his solemn assent to the Prayer - Book by a 
certain day ,  was declared to be a minister no longer ,  and to 
be deprived of his church .  The consequence of this was that 
some two thousand honest men were taken from their con -  
gregations ,  and reduced to dire poverty and distress .  It was 
followed by another outrageous law ,  called the Conventicle 
Act ,  by which any person above the age of sixteen who was 
present at any religious service not according to the Prayer -  
Book ,  was to be imprisoned three months for the first offence ,  



392 A CHILD S HISTORY OF ENGLAND 

six for the second ,  and to be transported for the third .  This 
Act alone tilled the prisons ,  which were then most dreadful 
dungeons ,  to overflowing .  

The Covenanters in Scotland had already fared no better .  
A base Parliament ,  usually known as the Drunken Parlia -  
ment ,  in consequence of its principal members being seldom 
sober ,  had been got together to make laws against the 
Covenanters ,  and to force all men to be of one mind in 
religious matters .  The Marquis of Argyle ,  relying on the 
Kings honour ,  had given himself up to him  ;  but ,  he was 
wealthy ,  and his enemies wanted his wealth .  He was tried 
for treason ,  on the evidence of some private letters in which 
he had expressed opinions — as well he might — more favour -  
able to the government of the late Lord Protector than of 
the present merry and religious King .  He was executed ,  as 
were two men of mark among the Covenanters  ;  and Sharp ,  
a traitor who had once been the friend of the Presbyterians 
and betrayed them ,  was made Archbishop of St .  Andrews ,  
to teach the Scotch how to like bishops .  

Things being in this merry state at home ,  the Merry 
Monarch undertook a war with the Dutch  ;  principally 
because they interfered with an African company ,  estab -  
lished with the two objects of buying gold - dust and slaves ,  of 
which the Duke of York was a leading member .  After some 
preliminary hostilities ,  the said Duke sailed to the coast of 
Holland with a fleet of ninety - eight vessels of war ,  and four 
lire - ships .  This engaged with the Dutch fleet ,  of no fewer 
than one hundred and thirteen ships .  In the great battle 
between the two forces ,  the Dutch lost eighteen ships ,  four 
admirals ,  and seven thousand men .  But ,  the English on 
shore were in no mood of exultation when they heard the 
news .  

For ,  this was the year and the time of the Great Plague 
in London .  During the winter of one thousand six hundred 
and sixty - four it had been whispered about ,  that some few 
people had died here and there of the disease called the 
Plague ,  in some of the unwholesome suburbs around London .  
News was not published at that time as it is now .  and some 
people believed these rumours ,  and some disbelieved them ,  
and they were soon forgotten .  But ,  in the month of May ,  
one thousand six hundred and sixty - five ,  it began to be said all 
over the town that the disease had burst out with great •vio -  
lence in St .  Giless ,  and that the people were dying in great 



CHARLES THE SECOND 393 

numbers .  This soon turned out to be awfully true .  The 
roads out of London were choked up by people endeavouring 
to escape from the infected city ,  and large sums were paid 
for any kind of conveyance .  The disease soon spread so 
fast ,  that it was necessary to shut up the houses in which 
sick people were ,  and to cut them off from communication 
with the living .  Every one of these houses was marked on 
the outside of the door with a red cross ,  and the words ,  Lord ,  
have mercy upon us  !  The streets were all deserted ,  grass 
grew in the public ways ,  and there was a dreadful silence in 
the air .   " When night came on ,  dismal rumblings used to be 
heard ,  and these were the wheels of the death - carts ,  attended 
by men with veiled faces and holding cloths to their mouths ,  
who rang doleful bells and cried in a loud and solemn voice ,  
 .  Bring out your dead  !   "  The corpses put into these carts 
were buried by torchlight in great pits : no service being 
performed over them  ;  all men being afraid to stay for a 
moment on the brink of the ghastly graves .  In the general 
fear ,  children ran away from their parents ,  and parents from 
their children .  Some who were taken ill ,  died alone ,  and 
without any help .  Some were stabbed or strangled by hired 
nurses who robbed them of all their money ,  and stole the 
very beds on which they lay .  Some went mad ,  dropped from 
the windows ,  ran through the streets ,  and in their pain and 
frenzy flung themselves into the river .  

These were not all the horrors of the time .  The wicked 
and dissolute ,  in wild desperation ,  sat in the taverns singing 
roaring songs ,  and were stricken as they drank ,  and went 
out and died .  The fearful and superstitious persuaded 
themselves that they saw supernatural sights — burning 
swords in the sky ,  gigantic arms and darts .  Others pretended 
that at nights vast crowds of ghosts walked round and round 
the dismal pits .  One madman ,  naked ,  and carrying a brazier 
full of burning coals upon his head ,  stalked through the 
streets ,  crying out that he was a Prophet ,  commissioned to 
denounce the vengeance of the Lord on wicked London .  
Another always went to and fro ,  exclaiming ,  • Yet forty days ,  
and London shall be destroyed  !   "  A third awoke the echoes 
in the dismal streets ,  by night and by day .  and made the 
blood of the sick run cold ,  by calling out incessantly ,  in a 
deep hoarse voice ,   -  O ,  the great and dreadful God  !   "  

Through the months of July and August and September ,  
the Great Plague raged more and more .  Great fires were 
I .  cc^ 



394 A childs history of England 

lighted in the streets ,  in the hope of stopping the infection  ;  
but there was a plague of rain too ,  and it beat the fires out .  
At last ,  the winds which usually arise at that time of the 
year which is called the equinox ,  when day and night are of 
equal length all over the world ,  began to blow ,  and to purify 
the wretched town .  The deaths began to decrease ,  the red 
crosses slowly to disappear ,  the fugitives to return ,  the shops 
to open ,  pale frightened faces to be seen in the streets .  The 
Plague had been in every part of England ,  but in close and 
unwholesome London it had killed one hundred thousand 
people .  

All this time ,  the Merry Monarch was as merry as ever ,  
and as worthless as ever .  All this time ,  the debauched 
lords and gentlemen and the shameless ladies danced and 
gamed and drank ,  and loved and hated one another ,  accord -  
ing to their merry ways .  So little humanity did the govern -  
ment learn from the late affliction ,  that one of the first things 
the Parliament did when it met at Oxford  ( being as yet 
afraid to come to London )  ,  was to make a law .  called the 
Five Mile Act .  expressly directed against those poor ministers 
who ,  in the time of the Plague ,  had manfully come back 
to comfort the unhappy people .  This infamous laAV .  by for -  
bidding them to teach in any school ,  or to come within five 
miles of any city ,  town ,  or village ,  doomed them to starvation 
and death .  

The fleet had been at sea ,  and healthy .  The King of 
France was now in alliance with the Dutch ,  though his navy 
was chiefly employed in looking on while the English and 
Dutch fought .  The Dutch gained one victory ;  and the 
English gained another and a greater  ;  and Prince Kupert ,  
one of the English admirals ,  was out in the Channel one 
windy night ,  looking for the French Admiral ,  with the 
intention of giving him something more to do than he had 
had yet ,  when the gale increased to a storm ,  and blew him 
into Saint Helens .  That night was the third of September .  
one thousand six hundred and sixty - six ,  and that wind 
fanned the Great Fire of London .  

It broke out at a bakers shop near London Bridge ,  on the 
spot on which the Monument now stands as a remembrance 
of those raging flames .  It spread and spread ,  and burned 
and burned ,  for three days .  The nights were lighter than 
the days ;  in the day - time there was an immense cloud of 
smoke ,  and in the night - time there was a great tower of fire 



CHARLES THE SECOND 395 

mounting up into the sky .  which lighted the whole country 
landscape for ten miles round .  Showers of hot ashes rose 
into the air and fell on distant places  ;  flying sparks carried 
the conflagration to great distances ,  and kindled it in twenty 
new spots at a time  ;  church steeples fell down with tremen -  
dous crashes  ;  houses crumbled into cinders by the hundred 
and the thousand .  The summer had been intensely hot and 
dry ,  the streets were very narrow ,  and the houses mostly 
built of M 7 ood and plaster .  Nothing could stop the tremen -  
dous fire ,  but the want of more houses to burn  ;  nor did it 
stop until the whole way from the Tower to Temple Bar 
was a desert ,  composed of the ashes of thirteen thousand 
houses and eighty - nine churches .  

This was a terrible visitation at the time ,  and occasioned 
great loss and suffering to the two hundred thousand burnt -  
out people ,  who were obliged to lie in the fields under the 
open night sky ,  or in hastily - made huts of mud and straw ,  
while the lanes and roads were rendered impassable by carts 
which had broken down as they tried to save their goods .  
But the Fire was a great blessing to the City afterwards ,  for 
it arose from its ruins very much improved -  — built more 
regularly ,  more widely ,  more cleanly and carefully ,  and 
therefore much more healthily .  It might be far more 
healthy than it is ,  but there are some people in it still — 
even now ,  at this time ,  nearly two hundred years later — so 
selfish ,  so pig - headed ,  and so ignorant ,  that I doubt if even 
another Great Fire would warm them up to do their duty .  

The Catholics were accused of having wilfully set London 
in flames  ;  one poor Frenchman ,  who had been mad for 
years ,  even accused himself of having with his own hand 
fired the first house .  There is no reasonable doubt ,  how -  
ever ,  that the fire was accidental .  An inscription on the 
Monument long attributed it to the Catholics  ;  but it is 
removed now ,  and was always a malicious and stupid 
untruth .  

Second Part .  

That the Merry Monarch might be very merry indeed ,  in 
the merry times when his people were suffering under 
pestilence and fire ,  he drank and gambled and flung away 
among his favourites the money which the Parliament had 
voted for the war .  The consequence of this was that the 
stout - hearted English sailors were merrily starving oi want ,  



396 A CHILDS HISTORY OF ENGLAND 

and dying in the streets  ;  while the Dutch ,  under their 
admirals De Witt  . and De Euyter ,  came into the Eiver 
Thames ,  and up the Eiver Medway as far as Upnor ,  burned 
the guard - ships ,  silenced the weak batteries ,  and did what 
they would to the English coast for six whole weeks .  Most 
of the English ships that could have prevented them had 
neither powder nor shot on hoard ■ in this merry reign ,  
public officers made themselves as merry as the King did 
with the public money  ;  and when it was entrusted to them 
to spend in national defences or preparations ,  they put it into 
their own pockets with the merriest grace in the world .  

Lord Clarendon had ,  by this time ,  run as long a course as 
is usually allotted to the unscrupulous ministers of bad kings .  
He was impeached by his political opponents ,  but unsuccess -  
fully .  The King then commanded him to withdraw from 
England and retire to France ,  which he did .  after defending 
himself in writing .  He was no great loss at home ,  and died 
abroad some seven years afterwards .  

There then came into power a ministry called the Cabal 
Ministry ,  because it was composed of Lord Clifford ,  the 
Earl of Arlington ,  the Duke of Buckingham  ( a great 
rascal ,  and the Kings most powerful favourite )  ,  Lord Ashley .  
and the Duke of Lauderdale ,  c .  a .  b .  a .  l .  As the French 
were making concpiests in Flanders ,  the first Cabal proceeding 
was to make a treaty with the Dutch ,  for uniting with Spain 
to oppose the French .  It was no sooner made than the 
Merry Monarch ,  who always wanted to get money without 
being accountable to a Farliament for his expenditure ,  
apologised to the King of France for having had anything 
to do with it .  and concluded a secret treaty with him .  making 
himself his infamous pensioner to the amount of two millions 
of livres down ,  and three millions more a year  ;  and engaging 
to desert that very Spain ,  to make war against those very 
Dutch ,  and to declare himself a Catholic when a convenient 
time should arrive .  This religious king had lately been 
crying to his Catholic brother on the subject of his strong 
desire to be a Catholic  ;  and now he merrily concluded this 
treasonable conspiracy against the country he governed ,  by 
undertaking to become one as soon as he safely could .  For 
all of which ,  though he had had ten merry heads instead of 
one ,  he richly deserved to lose them by the headsmans axe .  

As his one merry head might have been far from safe ,  if 
these things had been known ,  they were kept very quiet ,  and 



CHARLES THE SECOND 397 

war was declared by France and England against the Dutch .  
But ,  a very uncommon man ,  afterwards most important to 
English history and to the religion and liberty of this land ,  
arose among them ,  and for many long years defeated the 
whole projects of France .  This was William of Nassau ,  
Prince op Orange ,  son of the last Prince of Orange of the 
same name ,  who married the daughter of Charles the First 
of England .  He was a young man at this time ,  only just of 
age  ;  but he was brave ,  cool ,  intrepid ,  and wise .  His father 
had been so detested that ,  upon his death ,  the Dutch had 
abolished the authority to which this son would have other -  
wise succeeded  ( Stadtholder it was called )  ,  and placed the 
chief power in the hands of John de Witt ,  who educated 
this young prince .  Now ,  the Prince became very popular ,  
and John de Witts brother Cornelius was sentenced to 
banishment on a false accusation of conspiring to kill him .  
John went to the prison where he was ,  to take him away to 
exile ,  in his coach  ;  and a great mob who collected on the 
occasion ,  then and there cruelly murdered both the brothers .  
This left the government in the hands of the Prince ,  who 
was really the choice of the nation  ;  and from this time he 
exercised it with the greatest vigour ,  against the whole power 
of France ,  under its famous generals Conde and Turenne ,  
and in support of the Protestant religion .  It was full seven 
years before this war ended in a treaty of peace made at 
Nimeguen ,  and its details would occupy a very considerable 
space .  It is enough to say that William of Orange estab -  
lished a famous character with the whole world  ;  and that 
the Merry Monarch ,  adding to and improving on his former 
baseness ,  bound himself to do everything the King of France 
liked ,  and nothing the King of France did not like ,  for 
a pension of one hundred thousand pounds a year ,  which 
was afterwards doubled .  Besides this ,  the King of France ,  
by means of his corrupt ambassador — who wrote accounts of 
his proceedings in England ,  which are not always to be 
believed ,  I think — bought our English members of Parlia -  
ment ,  as he wanted them .  80 ,  in point of fact ,  during 
a considerable portion of this merry reign ,  the King of 
France was the real King of this country .  

But theie was a better time to come ,  and it was to come 
 ( though his royal uncle little thought so )  through that very 
William ,  Prince of Orange .  He came over to England ,  saw 
Mary ,  the elder daughter of the Duke of York ,  and married 



398 a childs history of England 

her .  We shall see by - and - by what came of that marriage ,  
and why it is never to be forgotten .  

This daughter was a Protestant ,  but her mother died a 
Catholic .  She and her sister Anne ,  also a Protestant ,  were 
the only survivors of eight children .  Anne afterwards 
married George ,  Prince of Denmark ,  brother to the King 
of that country .  

Lest you should do the Merry Monarch the injustice of 
supposing that he was even good humoured  ( except when he 
had everything his own way )  ,  or that he was high spirited 
and honourable ,  I will mention here what was done to a 
member of the House of Commons ,  Sir John Coventry .  He 
made a remark in a debate about taxing the theatres ,  which 
gave the King offence .  The King agreed with his illegiti -  
mate son ,  who had been born abroad ,  and whom he had 
made Duke of Monmouth ,  to take the following merry 
vengeance .  To waylay him at night ,  fifteen armed men to 
one ,  and to slit his nose with a penknife .  Like master ,  like 
man .  The Kings favourite ,  the Duke of Buckingham ,  was 
strongly suspected of setting on an assassin to murder the 
Duke of Ormond as he was returning home from a dinner  ;  
and that Dukes spirited son ,  Lord Ossory ,  was so persuaded 
of his guilt ,  that he said to him at Court ,  even as he stood 
beside the King ,   "  My lord ,  I know very well that you are 
at the bottom of this late attempt upon my father .  But 
I give you warning ,  if he ever come to a violent end ,  his 
blood shall be upon you ,  and wherever I meet you I will 
pistol you  !  I will do so ,  though I find you standing behind 
the Kings chair  ;  and I tell you this in his Majestys pre -  
sence ,  that you may be quite sure of my doing what I 
threaten .  "  Those were merry times indeed .  

There was a fellow named Blood ,  who was seized for 
making ,  with two companions ,  an audacious attempt to 
steal the crown ,  the globe ,  and sceptre ,  from the place 
where the jewels were kept in the Tower .  This robber ,  who 
was a swaggering ruffian ,  being taken ,  declared that he was 
the man who had endeavoured to kill the Duke of Ormond ,  
and that he had meant to kill the King too ,  but was over -  
awed by the majesty of his appearance ,  when he might 
otherwise have done it ,  as he was bathing at Battersea .  
The King being but an ill - looking fellow ,  I dont believe 
a word of this .  Whether he was flattered ,  or whether he 
knew that Buckingham had really set Blood on to murder 



CHARLES THE SECOND 399 

the Duke ,  is uncertain .  But it is quite certain that he 
pardoned this thief ,  gave him an estate of five hundred 
a year in Ireland  ( which had had the honour of giving him 
birth )  ,  and presented him at Court to the debauched lords 
and the shameless ladies ,  who made a great deal of him — as 
I have no doubt they would have made of the Devil himself ,  
if the King had introduced him .  

Infamously pensioned as he was ,  the King still wanted 
money ,  and consequently was obliged to call Parliaments .  
In these ,  the great object of the Protestants was to thwart 
the Catholic Duke of York ,  who married a second time  ;  his 
new wife being a young lady only fifteen years old ,  the 
Catholic sister of the Duke of Modena .  In this they were 
seconded by the Protestant Dissenters ,  though to their own 
disadvantage : since ,  to exclude Catholics from power ,  they 
were even willing to exclude themselves .  The Kings 
object was to pretend to be a Protestant ,  while he was 
really a Catholic  ;  to swear to the bishops that he was 
devoutly attached to the English Church ,  while he knew 
he had bargained it away to the King of France  ;  and by 
cheating and deceiving them ,  and all who were attached 
to royalty ,  to become despotic and be powerful enough 
to confess what a rascal he was .  Meantime ,  the King of 
France ,  knowing his merry pensioner well ,  intrigued with 
the Kings opponents in Parliament ,  as well as with the 
King and his friends .  

The fears that the country had of the Catholic religion 
being restored ,  if the Duke of York should come to the 
throne ,  and the low cunning of the King in pretending to 
share their alarms ,  led to some very terrible results .  A 
certain Dr .  Tonge ,  a dull clergyman in the City ,  fell into the 
hands of a certain Titus Oates ,  a most infamous character ,  
who pretended to have acquired among the Jesuits abroad 
a knowledge of a great plot for the murder of the King ,  and 
the re - establishment of the Catholic religion .  Titus Oates ,  
being produced by this unlucky Dr .  Tonge and solemnly 
examined before the council ,  contradicted himself in a thou -  
sand ways ,  told the most ridiculous and improbable stories ,  
and implicated Coleman ,  the Secretary of the Duchess of 
York .  Now ,  although what he charged against Coleman 
was not true ,  and although you and I know very well that 
the real dangerous Catholic plot was that one with the 
King of France of which the Merry Monarch was himself 



400 A GUILDS HISTORY OF ENGLAND 

the head )  there happened to be found among Colemans 
papers ,  some letters ,  in which he did praise the days of 
Bloody Queen Mary ,  and abuse the Protestant religion .  
This was great good fortune for Titus ,  as it seemed to con -  
firm him  ;  but better still was in store .  Sir Edmundbury 
Godfrey ,  the magistrate who had first examined him ,  being 
unexpectedly found dead near Primrose Hill ,  was confi -  
dently believed to have been killed by the Catholics .  I 
think there is no doubt that he had been melancholy mad ,  
and that he killed himself  ;  but he had a great Protestant 
funeral ,  and Titus was called the Saver of the Nation ,  and 
received a pension of twelve hundred pounds a year .  

As soon as Oatess wickedness had met with this success ,  
up started another villain ,  named William Bedloe ,  who ,  
attracted by a reward of five hundred pounds offered for the 
apprehension of the murderers of Godfrey ,  came forward and 
charged two Jesuits and some other persons with having 
committed it at the Queens desire .  Oates ,  going into 
partnership with this new informer ,  had the audacity to 
accuse the poor Queen herself of high treason .  Then 
appeared a third informer ,  as bad as either of the two ,  and 
accused a Catholic banker named Stayley of having said 
that the King was the greatest rogue in the world  ( which 
would not have been far from the truth )  ,  and that he would 
kill him with his own hand .  This banker ,  being at once 
tried and executed ,  Coleman and two others were tried and 
executed .  Then a miserable wretch named Prance ,  a 
Catholic silversmith ,  being accused by Bedloe ,  was tortured 
into confessing that he had taken part in Godfreys murder ,  
and into accusing three other men of having committed it .  
Then ,  five Jesuits were accused by Oates ,  Bedloe ,  and 
Prance together ,  and were all found guilty ,  and executed 
on the same kind of contradictory and absurd evidence .  
The Queens physician and three monks were next put on 
their trial  ;  but Oates and Bedloe had for the time gone far 
enough ,  and these four were acquitted .  The public mind ,  
however ,  was so full of a Catholic plot ,  and so strong against 
the Duke of York ,  that James consented to obey a written 
order from his brother ,  and to go with his family to Brussels ,  
provided that his rights should never be sacrificed in his 
absence to the Duke of Monmouth .  The House of Com -  
mons ,  not satisfied with this as the King hoped ,  passed 
a bill to exclude the Duke from ever succeeding to the 



CHARLES THE SECOND 40I 

throne .  In return ,  the King dissolved the Parliament .  He 
had deserted his old favourite ,  the Duke of Buckingham ,  
who was now in the opposition .  

To give any sufficient idea of the miseries of Scotland in 
this merry reign ,  would occupy a hundred pages .  Became 
the people would not have bishops ,  and were resolved to 
stand by their Solemn League and Covenant ,  such cruelties 
were inflicted upon them as make the blood run cold .  
Ferocious dragoons galloped through the country to punish 
the peasants for deserting the churches  ;  sons were hanged 
up at their fathers doors for refusing to disclose where their 
fathers were concealed  ;  wives were tortured to death for 
not betraying their husbands  ;  people were taken out of 
their fields and gardens ,  and shot on the public roads with -  
out trial  ;  lighted matches were tied to the fingers of 
prisoners ,  and a most horrible torment called the Boot was 
invented ,  and constantly applied ,  which ground and mashed 
the victims legs with iron wedges .  Witnesses were tor -  
tured as well as prisoners .  All the prisons were full  ;  all 
the gibbets were heavy with bodies  ;  murder and plunder 
devastated the whole country .  In spite of all ,  the Covenanters 
were by no means to be dragged into the churches ,  and 
persisted in worshipping God as they thought right .  A body 
of ferocious Highlanders ,  turned upon them from the moun -  
tains of their own country ,  had no greater effect than the 
English dragoons under Grahame of Claveehouse ,  the 
most cruel and rapacious of all their enemies ,  whose name 
will ever be cursed through the length and breadth of 
Scotland .  Archbishop Sharp had ever aided and abetted 
all these outrages .  But he fell at last  ;  for ,  when the 
injuries of the Scottish people were at their height ,  he was 
seen ,  in his coach - and - six coming across a moor ,  by a body 
of men ,  headed by one John Balfour ,  who were waiting for 
another of their oppressors .  Upon this they cried out that 
Heaven had delivered him into their hands ,  and killed him 
with many wounds .  If ever a man deserved such a death .  
I think Archbishop Sharp did .  

It made a great noise directly ,  and the Merry Monarch — 
strongly suspected of having goaded the Scottish people on ,  
that he might have an excuse for a greater army than the 
Parliament were willing to give him— sent down his son ,  
the Duke of Monmouth ,  as commander - in - chief ,  with instruc -  
tions to attack the Scottish rebels^ ot Whigs as they were 



402 A CHILD S HISTORY OF ENGLAND 

called ,  whenever he came up with them .  Marching with 
ten thousand men from Edinburgh ,  he found them ,  in 
number four or five thousand ,  drawn up at Bothwell 
Bridge ,  by the Clyde .  They were soon dispersed  ;  and 
Monmouth showed a more humane character towards them ,  
than he had shown towards that Member of Parliament 
whose nose he had caused to be slit with a penknife .  But 
the Duke of Lauderdale was their bitter foe ,  and sent 
Claverhouse to finish them .  

As the Duke of York became more and more unpopulai ,  
the Duke of Monmouth became more and more popular .  It 
would have been decent in the latter not to have voted in 
favour of the renewed bill for the exclusion of James from 
the throne  ;  but he did so ,  much to the Kings amusement ,  
who used to sit in the House of Lords by the fire ,  hearing 
the debates ,  which he said were as good as a play .  The 
House of Commons passed the bill by a large majority ,  and 
it was carried up to the House of Lords by Lord Russell ,  
one of the best of the leaders on the Protestant side .  It 
was rejected there ,  chiefly because the bishops helped the 
King to get rid of it  ;  and the fear of Catholic plots revived 
again .  There had been another got up ,  by a fellow out of 
Newgate ,  named Dangerpield ,  which is more famous than 
it deserves to be ,  under the name of the Meal - Tub Plot .  
This jail - bird having been got out of Newgate by a Mrs .  
Cellier ,  a Catholic nurse ,  had turned Catholic himself ,  and 
pretended that he knew of a plot among the Presbyterians 
against the Kings life .  This was very pleasant to the Duke 
of York ,  who hated the Presbyterians ,  who returned the 
compliment .  He gave Dangerfield twenty guineas ,  and sent 
him to the King his brother .  But Dangerfield ,  breaking 
down altogether in his charge ,  and being sent back to 
Newgate ,  almost astonished the Duke out of his five senses 
by suddenly swearing that the Catholic nurse had put that 
false design into his head ,  and that what he really knew 
about ,  was ,  a Catholic plot against the King  ;  the evidence 
of which would be found in some papers ,  concealed in 
a meal - tub in Mrs .  Celliers house .  There they were ,  of 
course  - for he had put them there himself — and so the tub 
gave the name to the plot .  But ,  the nurse was acquitted 
on her trial ,  and it came to nothing .  

Lord Ashley ,  of the Cabal ,  was now Lord Shaftesbury ,  
and was strong against the succession of the Duke of York .  



CHARLES THE SECOND 4O3 

The House of Commons ,  aggravated to the utmost extent ,  
as we may well suppose ,  by suspicions of the Kings con -  
spiracy with the King of France ,  made a desperate point of 
the exclusion still ,  and were bitter against the Catholics 
generally .  So unjustly bitter were they ,  I grieve to say ,  
that they impeached the venerable Lord Stafford ,  a Catholic 
nobleman seventy years old ,  of a design to kill the King .  
The witnesses were that atrocious Oates and two other birds 
of the same feather .  He was found guilty ,  on evidence 
quite as foolish as it was false ,  and was beheaded on Tower 
Hill .  The people were opposed to him when he first ap -  
peared upon the scaffold  ;  but ,  when he had addressed them 
and shown them how innocent he was and how wickedly 
he was sent there ,  their better nature was aroused ,  and they 
said ,   "  We believe you ,  my Lord .  God bless you ,  my 
Lord  !   "  

The House of Commons refused to let the King have any 
money until he should consent to the Exclusion Bill  ;  but ,  
as he could get it and did get it from his master the King 
of France ,  he could afford to hold them very cheap .  He 
called a Parliament at Oxford ,  to which he went down with 
a great show of being armed and protected as if he were in 
danger of his life ,  and to which the opposition members also 
went armed and protected ,  alleging that they were in fear of 
the Papists ,  who were numerous among the Kings guards .  
However ,  they went on with the Exclusion Bill ,  and were 
so earnest upon it that they would have carried it again ,  if 
the King had not popped his crown and state robes into a 
sedan - chair ,  bundled himself into it along with them ,  hurried 
down to the chamber where the House of Lords met ,  and 
dissolved the Parliament .  After which he scampered home ,  
and the members of Parliament scampered home too ,  as fast 
as their legs could carry them .  

The Duke of York ,  then residing in Scotland ,  had ,  under 
the law which excluded Catholics from public trusts ,  no 
right whatever to public employment .  Nevertheless ,  he 
was openly employed as the Kings representative in Scot -  
land ,  and there gratified his sullen and cruel nature to his 
hearts content by directing the dreadful cruelties against 
the Covenanters .  There were two ministers named Cargill 
and Cameron who had escaped from the battle of Both well 
Bridge ,  and who returned to Scotland ,  and raised the miser -  
able but still brave and unsubdued Covenanters afresh ,  under 



404 A CHILDS HISTORY OF ENGLAND 

the name of Cameronians .  As Cameron publicly posted 
a declaration that the King was a forsworn tyrant ,  no 
mercy was shown to his unhappy followers after he was 
slain in battle .  The Duke of York ,  who was particularly 
fond of the Boot and derived great pleasure from having it 
applied ,  offered their lives to some of these people ,  if they 
would cry on the scaffold  "  God save the King .  "  But their 
relations ,  friends ,  and countrymen ,  had been so barbarously 
tortured and murdered in this merry reign ,  that they pre -  
ferred to die ,  and did die .  The Duke then obtained his 
merry brothers permission to hold a Parliament in Scot -  
land ,  which first ,  with most shameless deceit ,  confirmed the 
laws for securing the Protestant religion against Popeiy ,  
and then declared that nothing must or should prevent the 
succession of the Popish Duke .  After this double - faced 
beginning ,  it established an oath which no human being -  
could understand ,  but which everybody was to take ,  as a 
proof that his religion was the lawful religion .  The Earl 
of Argyle ,  taking it with the explanation that he did not 
consider it to prevent him from favouring any alteration 
either in the Church or State which was not inconsistent 
with the Protestant religion or with his loyalty ,  was tried 
for high treason before a Scottish jury of which the 
Marquis op Montrose was foreman ,  and was found guilty .  
He escaped the scaffold ,  for that time ,  by getting away ,  in 
the disguise of a page ,  in the train of his daughter ,  Lady 
Sophia Lindsay .  It was absolutely proposed ,  by certain 
members of the Scottish Council ,  that this lady should be 
whipped through the streets of Edinburgh .  But this was 
too much even for the Duke ,  who had the manliness then 
 ( he had very little at most times )  to remark that Englishmen 
were not accustomed to treat ladies in that manner .  In 
those merry times nothing could equal the brutal servility 
of the Scottish fawners ,  but the conduct of similar degraded 
beings in England .  

After the settlement of these little affairs ,  the Duke 
returned to England ,  and soon resumed his place at the 
Council ,  and his office of High Admiral— all this by his 
brothers favour ,  and in open defiance of the law .  It would 
have been no loss to the country ,  if he had been drowned 
when his ship ,  in going to Scotland to fetch his family ,  
struck on a sand - bank ,  and was lost with two hundred souls 
on board .  But he escaped in a boat with some friends : and 



CHARLES THE SECOND 405 

the sailors were so brave and unselfish ,  that ,  when thty ^aw 
him rowing aw^^y .  they gave three cheers ,  while they them -  
selves were going down for ever .  

The Merry Monarch ,  having got rid of his Parliament ,  
went to work to make himself despotic ,  with all speed .  
Having had the villainy to order the execution of Oliver 
Plunket .  Bishop of Armagh ,  falsely accused of a plot to 
establish Popery in that country by means of a French army 
— the very thing this royal traitor was himself trying to do 
at home— and having tried to ruin Lord Shaftesbury ,  and 
failed— he turned his hand to controlling the corporations 
all over the country  ;  because ,  if he could only do that ,  he 
could get what juries he chose ,  to bring in perjured verdicts ,  
and could get what members he chose ,  returned to Parlia -  
ment .  These merry times produced ,  and made Chief Justice 
of the Court of Kings Bench ,  a drunken ruffian of the name 
of Jeffreys  ;  a red - faced swollen bloated horrible creature ,  
with a bullying roaring voice ,  and a more savage nature 
perhaps than was ever lodged in any human breast .  This 
monster was the Merry Monarchs especial favourite ,  and he 
testified his admiration of him by giving him a ring from 
his own finger ,  which the people used to call Judge Jeffreyss 
Bloodstone .  Him the King employed to go about and bully 
the corporations ,  beginning with London  ;  or .  as Jeffreys 
himself elegantly called it ,  to give them a lick with the 
rough side of his tongue .  "  AncT he did it so thoroughly ,  
that they soon became the basest and most sycophantic 
bodies in the kingdom — except the University of Oxford ,  
Avhich ,  in that respect ,  was quite pre - eminent and unap -  
proachable .  

Lord Shaftesbury  ( who died soon after the Kings failure 
against him )  .  Lord William Kussell .  the Duke of Mon -  
mouth .  Lord Howard ,  Lord Jersey ,  Algernon Sidney ,  
John Hampden  ( grandson of the great Hampden )  ,  and some 
others ,  used to hold a council together after the dissolution 
of the Parliament ,  arranging what it might be necessary to 
do ,  if the King carried his Popish plot to the utmost height .  
Lord Shaftesbury having been much the most violent of 
this party ,  brought two violent men into their secrets — 
Rumsey ,  who had been a soldier in the Republican army  ;  
and West ,  a lawyer .  These two knew an old officer of 
Cromwells ,  called Rumbold ,  who had married a maltsters 
widow ,  and so had come into pos^^siou of a solitary dwell -  



406 A CHILDS HISTORY OF ENGLAND 

ing called the Rye House ,  near Hoddesdon ,  in Hertford -  
shire .  Rumhold said to them what a capital place this 
house of his would he from which to shoot at the King ,  who 
often passed there going to and fro from Newmarket .  They 
liked the idea ,  and entertained it .  But ,  one of their body 
gave information  ;  and they ,  together with Shepherd ,  a wine 
merchant ,  Lord Russell ,  Algernon Sidney ,  Lord Essex .  Lord 
Howard ,  and Hampden ,  were all arrested .  

Lord Russell might have easily escaped ,  but scorned to do 
so ,  being innocent of any wrong  ;  Lord Essex might have 
easily escaped ,  but scorned to do so ,  lest his flight should 
prejudice Lord Russell .  But it weighed upon his mind that 
he had brought into their council ,  Lord Howard — who now 
turned a miserable traitor — against a great dislike Lord 
Russell had always had of him .  He could not bear the 
reflection ,  and destroyed himself before Lord Russell was 
brought to trial at the Old Bailey .  

He knew very well that he had nothing to hope ,  having 
always been manful in the Protestant cause against the two 
false brothers ,  the one on the throne ,  and the other standing 
next to it .  He had a wife ,  one of the noblest and best of 
women ,  who acted as his secretary on his trial ,  who com -  
forted him in his prison ,  who supped with him on the night 
before he died ,  and whose love and virtue and devotion 
have made her name imperishable .  Of course ,  he was found 
guilty ,  and was sentenced to be beheaded in Lincolns Inn -  
fields ,  not many yards from his own house .  When he had 
parted from his children on the evening before his death ,  
his wife still stayed with him until ten oclock at night  ;  
and when their final separation in this world was over ,  and 
he had kissed her many times ,  he still sat for a long while 
in his prison ,  talking of her goodness .  Hearing the rain 
fall fast at that time ,  he calmly said ,   "  Such a rain to -  
morrow will spoil a great show ,  which is a dull thing on 
a rainy day .  "  At midnight he went to bed ,  and slept till 
four  ;  even when his servant called him ,  he fell asleep again 
while his clothes were being made ready .  He rode to the 
scaffold in his own carriage ,  attended by two famous clergy -  
men ,  Tillotson and Burnet ,  and sang a psalm to himself 
very softly ,  as he went along .  He was as quiet and as 
steady as if he had been going out for an ordinary ride .  
After saying that he was surprised to see so great a crowd ,  
he laid down his head upon the block ,  as if upon the pillow 



CHAKLES THE SECOND 407 

of his bed ,  and had it struck off at the second blow .  His 
noble wife was busy for him even then  ;  for that true -  
hearted lady printed and widely circulated his last words ,  of 
which he had given her a copy .  They made the blood of all 
the honest men in England boil .  

The University of Oxford distinguished itself on the very 
same day by pretending to believe that the accusation against 
Lord Kussell was true ,  and by calling the King ,  in a written 
paper ,  the Breath of their Nostrils and the Anointed of the 
Lord .  This paper the Parliament afterwards caused to be 
burned by the common hangman  ;  which I am sorry for ,  as 
I wish it had been framed and glazed and hung up in some 
public place ,  as a monument of baseness for the scorn of 
mankind .  

Next ,  came the trial of Algernon  ( Sidney ,  at which Jeffreys 
presided ,  like a great crimson toad ,  sweltering and swelling 
with rage .   " I pray God ,  Mr .  Sidney ,  "  said this Chief 
Justice of a merry reign ,  after passing sentence ,   "  to work 
in you a temper fit to go to the other world ,  for I see you 
are not fit for this .  "   " My lord ,  "  said the prisoner ,  com -  
posedly holding out his arm ,   " feel my pulse ,  and see if 
I be disordered .  I thank Heaven I never was in better 
temper than I am now .  "  Algernon Sidney was executed 
on Tower Hill ,  on the seventh of December ,  one thousand 
six hundred and eighty - three .  He died a hero ,  and died ,  in 
his own words ,   "  For that good old cause in which he had 
been engaged from his youth ,  and for which God had so 
often and so wonderfully declared himself .  "  

The Duke of Monmouth had been making his uncle ,  the 
Duke of York ,  very jealous ,  by going about the country in 
a royal sort of way ,  playing at the peoples games ,  becoming 
godfather to their children ,  and even touching for the Kings 
evil ,  or stroking the faces of the sick to cure them — though ,  
for the matter of that ,  I should say he did them about as 
much good as any crowned king could have done .  His 
father had got him to write a letter ,  confessing his having 
had a part in the conspiracy ,  for which Lord Russell had 
been beheaded  ;  but he was ever a weak man ,  and as soon 
as he had written it ,  he was ashamed of it and got it back 
again .  For this ,  he was banished to the Netherlands  ;  but 
he soon returned and had an interview with his father ,  
unknown to his uncle .  It would seem that he was coming 
into the Merry Monarchs favour again ,  and that the Duke of 



408 a childs history of England 

York was sliding out of it ,  when Death appeared to the 
merry galleries at Whitehall ,  and astonished the debauched 
lords and gentlemen ,  and the shameless ladies ,  very con -  
siderably .  

On Monday ,  the second of February ,  one thousand six 
hundred and eighty - five ,  the merry pensioner and servant 
of the King of France fell down in a fit of apoplexy .  By 
the Wednesday his case was hopeless ,  and on the Thursday 
he was told so .  As he made a difficulty about taking the 
sacrament from the Protestant Bishop of Bath ,  the Duke of 
York got all who were present away from the bed ,  and asked 
his brother ,  in a whisper ,  if he should send for a Catholic 
priest ? The King replied ,   "  For Gods sake ,  brother ,  do  !  * 
The Duke smuggled in ,  up the back stairs ,  disguised in 
a wig and gown ,  a priest named Huddleston ,  who had saved 
the Kings life after the battle of Worcester : telling him 
that this worthy man in the wig had once saved his body ,  
and was now come to save his soul .  

The Merry Monarch lived through that night ,  and died 
before noon on the next day ,  which was Friday ,  the sixth .  
Two of the last things he said were of a human sort ,  and 
your remembrance will give him the full benefit of them .  
When the Queen sent to say she was too unwell to attend 
him and to ask his pardon ,  he said ,  Alas !  poor woman ,  
she beg <my pardon  !  I beg hers with all my heart .  Take 
back that answer to her .  "  And he also said ,  in reference to 
Nell Gwyn ,   " Do not let poor Nelly starve .  "  

He died in the fifty - fifth year of his age ,  and the twenty -  
fifth of his reign .  



CHAPTER XXXVI 

ENGLAND UNDER JAMES THE SECOND 

King James the Second was a man so very disagreeable ,  
that even the best of historians has favoured his brother 
Charles ,  as becoming ,  by comparison ,  quite a pleasant 
character .  The one object of his short reign was to re -  
establish the Catholic religion in England ;  and this he 
doggedly pursued with such a stupid obstinacy ,  that his 
career very soon came to a close .  

The first thing he did ,  was ,  to assure his council that he 
would make it his endeavour to preserve the Government ,  
both in Church and State ,  as it was by law established  ;  and 
that he would always take care to defend and support the 
Church .  Great public acclamations were raised over this 
fair speech ,  and a great deal was said ,  from the pulpits and 
elsewhere ,  about the word of a King which was never broken ,  
by credulous people who little supposed that he had formed 
a secret council for Catholic affairs ,  of which a mischievous 
Jesuit ,  called Father Petre ,  was one of the chief members .  
With tears of joy in his eyes ,  he received ,  as the beginning 
of Jits pension from the King of France ,  five hundred thou -  
sand livres  ;  yet ,  with a mixture of meanness and arrogance 
that belonged to his contemptible character ,  he was always 
jealous of making some show of being independent of the 
King of France ,  while he pocketed his money .  As— not -  
withstanding his publishing two papers in favour of Popery 
 ( and not likely to do it much service ,  I should think )  written 
by the King ,  his brother ,  and found in his strong - box  ;  and 
his open display of himself attending mass — the Parliament 
was very obsequious ,  and granted him a large sum of money ,  
he began his reign with a belief that he could do what he 
pleased ,  and with a determination to do it .  

Before we proceed to its principal events ,  let us dispose of 
Titus Oates .  He was tried for perjury ,  a fortnight after 
the coronation ,  and besides being very heavily fined ,  was 



410 A CHILD S HISTORY OF ENGLAND 

sentenced to stand twice in the pillory ,  to be whipped from 
Aldgate to Newgate one day ,  and front Newgate to Tyburn 
two days afterwards ,  and to stand in the pillory five times 
a year as long as he lived .  This fearful sentence was actually 
inflicted on the rascal .  Being unable to stand after his first 
flogging ,  he was dragged on a sledge from Newgate to 
Tyburn ,  and flogged as he was drawn along .  He was so 
strong a villain that he did not die under the torture ,  but 
lived to be afterwards pardoned and rewarded ,  though not 
to be ever believed in any more .  Dangerfield ,  the only 
other one of that crew left alive ,  was not so fortunate .  He 
was almost killed by a whipping from Newgate to Tyburn ,  
and ,  as if that were not punishment enough ,  a ferocious 
barrister of Grays Inn gave him a poke in the eye with his 
cane ,  which caused his death  ;  for which the ferocious 
barrister was deservedly tried and executed .  

As soon as James was on the throne ,  Argyle and Mon -  
mouth went from Brussels to Botterdam ,  and attended 
a meeting of Scottish exiles held there ,  to concert measures 
for a rising in England .  It was agreed that Argyle should 
effect a landing in Scotland ,  and Monmouth in England  ;  
and that two Englishmen should be sent with Argyle to be 
in his confidence ,  and two Scotchmen with the Duke of 
Monmouth .  

Argyle was the first to act upon this contract .  But ,  two 
of his men being taken prisoners at the Orkney Islands ,  the 
Government became aware of his intention ,  and was aide to 
act against him with such vigour as to prevent his raising 
more than two or three thousand Highlanders ,  although he 
sent a fiery cross ,  by trusty messengers ,  from clan to clan 
and from glen to glen ,  as the custom then was when those 
wild people were to be excited by their chiefs .  As he was 
moving towards Glasgow with his small force ,  he was be -  
trayed by some of his followers ,  taken ,  and carried ,  witli 
his hands tied behind his back ,  to his old prison in Edinburgh 
Castle .  James ordered him to be executed ,  on his old 
shamefully unjust sentence ,  within three days : and he 
appears to have been anxious that his legs should have been 
pounded with his old favourite the boot .  However ,  the 
boot was not applied  ;  he was simply beheaded ,  and his 
head was set upon the top of Edinburgh Jail .  One of those 
Englishmen who had been assigned to him was that old 
soldier Bumbold ,  the master of the Bye House .  He was 



JAMES THE SECOND 41] 

sorely wounded ,  and within a week after Argyle had suffered 
with great courage ,  was brought up for trial ,  lest he should 
die and disappoint the King .  He ,  too ,  was executed ,  after 
defending himself with great spirit ,  and saying that he did 
not believe that God had made the greater part of mankind 
to carry saddles on their backs and bridles in their mouths ,  
and to be ridden by a few ,  booted and spurred for the 
purpose — in which I thoroughly agree with Rumbold .  

The Duke of Monmouth ,  partly through being detained 
and partly through idling his time away ,  was five or six 
weeks behind his friend when he landed at Lyme ,  in Dorset : 
having at his right hand an unlucky nobleman called Lord 
Grey of Werk ,  who of himself would have ruined a far 
more promising expedition .  He immediately set up his 
standard in the market - place ,  and proclaimed the King a 
tyrant ,  and a Popish usurper ,  and I know not what else  ;  
charging him ,  not only with what he had done ,  which was 
bad enough ,  but with what neither he nor anybody else had 
done ,  such as setting fire to London ,  and poisoning the late 
King .  Raising some four thousand men by these means ,  
he marched on to Taunton ,  where there were many Pro -  
testant dissenters who were strongly opposed to the Catholics .  
Here ,  both the rich and poor turned out to receive him ,  
ladies waved a welcome to him from all the windows as 
he passed along the streets ,  flowers were strewn in his way .  
and every compliment and honour that could be devised 
was showered upon him .  Among the rest ,  twenty young -  
ladies came forward ,  in their best clothes ,  and in their 
brightest beauty ,  and gave him a Bible ornamented with 
their own fair hands ,  together with other presents .  

Encouraged by this homage ,  he proclaimed himself King ,  
and went on to Bridgewater .  But ,  here the Government 
troops ,  under the Earl of Feversham .  were close at hand  ;  
and he was so dispirited at finding that he made but few 
powerful friends after all ,  that it was a question whether 
he should disband his army and endeavour to escape .  It 
was resolved ,  at the instance of that unlucky Lord Grey ,  
to make a night attack on the Kings army ,  as it lay en -  
camped on the edge of a morass called Sedgemoor .  The 
horsemen were commanded by the same unlucky lord ,  who 
was not a brave man .  He gave up the battle almost at the 
first obstacle — which was a deep drain  ;  and although the 
poor countrymen ,  who had turned out for Monmouth ,  fought 



412 A CHILD S HISTORY OF ENGLAND 

bravely with scythes ,  poles ,  pitchforks ,  and such poor weapons 
as they had ,  they were soon dispersed by the trained soldiers ,  
and fled in all directions .  When the Duke of Monmouth 
himself fled ,  was not known in the confusion  ;  but the 
unlucky Lord Grey was taken early next day ,  and then 
another of the party was taken ,  who had confessed that 
he had parted from the Duke only four hours before .  Strict 
search being made ,  he was found disguised as a peasant ,  
hidden in a ditch under fern and nettles ,  with a few peas 
in his pocket which he had gathered in the fields to eat .  
The only other articles he had upon him were a few papers 
and little books : one of the latter being a strange jumble ,  
in his own writing ,  of charms ,  songs ,  recipes ,  and prayers .  
He was completely broken .  He wrote a miserable letter 
to the King ,  beseeching and entreating to be allowed to 
see him .  When he was taken to London ,  and conveyed 
bound into the Kings presence ,  he crawled to him on his 
knees ,  and made a most degrading exhibition .  As James 
never forgave or relented towards anybody ,  he was not likely 
to soften towards the issuer of the Lyme proclamation ,  so 
he told the suppliant to prepare for death .  

On the fifteenth of July ,  one thousand six hundred and 
eighty - five ,  this unfortunate favourite of the people was 
brought out to die on Tower Hill .  The crowd was immense ,  
and the tops of all the houses were covered with gazers .  
He had seen his wife ,  the daughter of the Duke of Buccleuch ,  
in the Tower ,  and had talked much of a lady whom he 
loved far better — the Lady Harriet Wentworth — who 
was one of the last persons he remembered in this life .  
Before laying down his head upon the block he felt the 
edge of the axe ,  and told the executioner that he feared it 
was not sharp enough ,  and that the axe was not heavy 
enough .  On the executioner replying that it was of the 
proper kind ,  the Duke said ,   "  I pray you have a care ,  and 
do not use me so awkwardly as you used my Lord Bussell .   "  
The executioner ,  made nervous by this ,  and trembling ,  
struck once and merely gashed him in the neck .  Upon 
this ,  the Duke of Monmouth raised his head and looked the 
man reproachfully in the face .  Then he struck twice ,  and 
then thrice ,  and then threw down the axe ,  and cried out 
in a voice of horror that he could not finish that work .  
The sheriffs ,  however ,  threatening him with what should 
be done to himself if he did not ,  he took it up again and 



JAMES THE SECOND 413 

struck a fourth time and a fifth time .  Then the wretched 
head at last fell off ,  and James ,  Duke of Monmouth ,  was 
dead ,  in the thirty - sixth year of his age .  He was a showy 
graceful man ,  with many popular qualities ,  and had found 
much favour in the open hearts of the English .  

The atrocities ,  committed by the Government ,  which 
followed this Monmouth rebellion ,  form the blackest and 
most lamentable page in English history .  The poor peasants ,  
having been dispersed with great loss ,  and their leadei*s 
having been taken ,  one would think that the implacable 
King might have been satisfied .  But no  ;  he let loose upon 
them ,  among other intolerable monsters ,  a Colonel Kirk ,  
who had served against the Moors ,  and whose soldiers — 
called by the people Kirks lambs ,  because they bore a lamb 
upon their flag ,  as the emblem of Christianity — were worthy 
of their leader .  The atrocities committed by these demons 
in human shape are far too horrible to be related here .  It 
is enough to say ,  that besides most ruthlessly murdering 
and robbing them ,  and ruining them by making them buy 
their pardons at the price of all they possessed ,  it was one 
of Kirks favourite amusements ,  as he and his officers sat 
drinking after dinner ,  and toasting the King ,  to have 
batches of prisoners hanged outside the windows for the 
companys diversion  ;  and that when their feet quivered in 
the convulsions of death ,  he used to swear that they should 
have music to their dancing ,  and would order the drums 
to beat and the trumpets to play .  The detestable King 
informed him ,  as an acknowledgment of these services ,  that 
he was  " very well satisfied with his proceedings .  "  But the 
Kings great delight was in the proceedings of Jeffreys ,  now 
a peer ,  who went down into the west ,  with four other judges ,  
to try persons accused of having had any share in the rebel -  
lion .  The King pleasantly called this  "  Jeffreyss campaign .  "  
The people down in that part of the country remember it 
to this day as The Bloody Assize .  

It began at Winchester ,  where a poor deaf old lady ,  
Mrs .  Alicia Lisle ,  the widow of one of the judges of 
Charles the First  ( who had been murdered abroad by some 
Royalist assassins )  ,  was charged with having given shelter 
in her house to two fugitives from Sedgemoor .  Three times 
the jury refused to find her guilty ,  until Jeffreys bullied 
and frightened them into that false verdict .  When he had 
extorted it from them ,  he said ,   "  Gentlemen ,  if I had been 



414 A CHILDS HISTORY OF ENGLAND 

one of you ,  and she had heen my own mother ,  I would have 
found her guilty  ;   "  — as I dare say he would .  He sentenced 
her to be burned alive ,  that very afternoon .  The clergy 
of the cathedral and some others interfered in her favour ,  
and she was beheaded within a week .  As a high mark of 
his approbation ,  the King made Jeffreys Lord Chancellor  ;  
and he then went on to Dorchester ,  to Exeter ,  to Taunton ,  
and to Wells .  It is astonishing ,  when we read of the 
enormous injustice and barbarity of this beast ,  to know 
that no one struck him dead on the judgment -  seat .  It 
was enough for any man or woman to be accused by 
an enemy ,  before Jeffreys ,  to be found guilty of high 
treason .  One man who pleaded not guilty ,  he ordered to 
be taken out of court upon the instant ,  and hanged  ;  and 
this so terrified the prisoners in general that they mostly 
pleaded guilty at once .  At Dorchester alone ,  in the course 
of a few days ,  Jeffreys hanged eighty people  ;  besides whip -  
ping ,  transporting ,  imprisoning ,  and selling as slaves ,  great 
numbers .  He executed ,  in all ,  two hundred and fifty ,  or 

three hundred .  

These executions took place ,  among the neighbours and 
friends of the sentenced ,  in thirty - six towns and villages .  
Their bodies were mangled ,  steeped in caldrons of boiling 
pitch and tar ,  and hung up by the roadsides ,  in the streets ,  
over the very churches .  The sight and smell of heads and 
limbs ,  the hissing and bubbling of the infernal caldrons ,  and 
the tears and terrors of the people ,  were dreadful beyond 
all description .  One rustic ,  who was forced to steep the 
remains in the black pot ,  was ever afterwards called  " Tom 
Boilman .  "  The hangman has ever since been called Jack 
Ketch ,  because a man of that name went hanging and 
hanging ,  all day long ,  in the train of Jeffreys .  You will 
hear much of the horrors of the great French Kevolution .  
Many and terrible they were ,  there is no doubt  ;  but I know 
of nothing worse ,  done by the maddened people of France 
in that awful time ,  than was done by the highest judge in 
England ,  with the express approval of the King of England ,  
in The Bloody Assize .  

Nor was even this all .  Jeffreys was as fond of money for 
himself as of misery for others ,  and he sold pardons wholesale 
to fill his pockets .  The King ordered ,  at one time ,  a thousand 
prisoners to be given to certain of his favourites ,  in order 
tbat they might bargain with tluin for their pardons .  The 



JAMES THE SECOND 415 

young ladies of Taunton who had presented the Bible ,  were 
bestowed upon the maids of honour at court  ;  and those 
precious ladies made very hard bargains with them indeed .  
When The Bloody Assize was at its most dismal height ,  the 
King was diverting himself with horse - races in the very place 
where Mrs .  Lisle had been executed .  When Jeffreys had 
done his worst ,  and came home again ,  he was particularly 
complimented in the Eoyal Gazette  ;  and when the King 
heard that through drunkenness and raging he was very ill ,  
his odious Majesty remarked that such another man could 
not easily be found in England .  Besides all this ,  a former 
sheriff of London ,  named Cornish ,  was hanged within sight 
of his own house ,  after an abominably conducted trial ,  for 
having had a share in the Eye House Plot ,  on evidence given 
by Eumsey ,  which that villain was obliged to confess was 
directly opposed to the evidence he had given on the trial of 
Lord Bussell .  And on the very same day ,  a worthy widow ,  
named Elizabeth Gaunt ,  was burned alive at Tyburn ,  for 
having sheltered a wretch who himself gave evidence against 
her .  She settled the fuel about herself with her own hands .  
so that the flames should reach her quickly : and nobly 
said ,  with her last breath ,  that she had obeyed the sacred 
command of God ,  to give refuge to the outcast ,  and not to 
betray the wanderer .  

After all this hanging ,  beheading ,  burning ,  boiling ,  muti -  
lating ,  exposing ,  robbing ,  transporting ,  and selling into 
slavery ,  of his unhappy subjects ,  the King not unnaturally 
thought that he could do whatever he would .  So he went to 
work to change the religion of the country with all possible 
speed  ;  and what he did was this .  

He first of all tried to get rid of what was called the Test 
Act — which prevented the Catholics from holding public 
employments — by his own power of dispensing with the 
penalties .  He tried it in one case ,  and ,  eleven of the twelve 
judges deciding in his favour ,  he exercised it in three others ,  
being those of three dignitaries of University College ,  Oxford ,  
who had become Papists ,  and whom he kept in their places 
and sanctioned .  He revived the hated Ecclesiastical Com -  
mission ,  to get rid of Compton ,  Bishop of London ,  who 
manfully opposed him .  He solicited the Pope to favour 
England with an ambassador ,  which tbe Pope  ( who was 
a sensible man then )  rather unwillingly did .  He flourished 
Father Petre before the eyes of the people on all possible 



416 A CHILDS HISTORY OF ENGLAND 

occasions .  He favoured the establishment of convents in 
several parts of London .  He was delighted to have the 
streets ,  and even the court itself ,  filled with Monks and 
Friars in the habits of their orders .  He constantly endea -  
voured to make Catholics of the Protestants about him .  He 
held private interviews ,  which he called  "  closetings ,  "  with 
those Members of Parliament who held offices ,  to persuade 
them to consent to the design he had in view .  When they 
did not consent ,  they were removed ,  or resigned of themselves ,  
and their places were given to Catholics .  He displaced 
Protestant officers from the army ,  by every means in his 
power ,  and got Catholics into their places too .  He tried 
the same thing with the corporations ,  and also  ( though not 
so successfully )  with the Lord Lieutenants of counties .  To 
terrify the people into the endurance of all these measures ,  
he kept an army of fifteen thousand men encamped on 
Hounslow Heath ,  where mass was openly performed in the 
Generals tent ,  and where priests went among the soldiers 
endeavouring to persuade them to become Catholics .  For 
circulating a paper among those men advising them to be 
true to their religion ,  a Protestant clergyman ,  named Johnson ,  
the chaplain of the late Lord Eussell ,  was actually sentenced 
to stand three times in the pillory ,  and was actually whipped 
from Newgate to Tyburn .  He dismissed his own brother - in -  
law from his Council because he was a Protestant ,  and made 
a Privy Councillor of the before - mentioned Father Petre .  
He handed Ireland over to Richard Talbot ,  Earl op 
Tyrconnell ,  a worthless ,  dissolute knave ,  who played the 
same game there for his master ,  and who played the deeper 
game for himself of one day putting it under the protection 
of the French King .  In going to these extremities ,  every man 
of sense and judgment among the Catholics ,  from the Pope 
to a porter ,  knew that the King was a mere bigoted fool ,  
who would undo himself and the cause he sought to advance  ;  
but he was deaf to all reason ,  and ,  happily for England 
ever afterwards ,  went tumbling off his throne in his own 
blind way .  

A spirit began to arise in the country ,  which the besotted 
blunderer little expected .  He first found it out in the 
University of Cambridge .  Having made a Catholic ,  a dean ,  
at Oxford ,  without any opposition ,  he tried to make a monk 
a master of arts at Cambridge : which attempt the University 
resisted ,  and defeated him .  He then went back to his 



JAMES THE SECOND 417 

favourite Oxford .  On the death of the President of Magdalen 
College ,  he commanded that there should be elected to 
succeed him ,  one Mr .  Anthony Farmer ,  whose only recom -  
mendation was ,  that he was of the Kings religion .  The 
University plucked up courage at last ,  and refused .  The 
King substituted another man ,  and it still refused ,  resolving 
to stand by its own election of a Mr .  Hough .  The dull 
tyrant ,  upon this ,  punished Mr .  Hough ,  and five - and - twenty 
more ,  by causing them to be expelled and declared incapable 
of holding any church preferment  ;  then he proceeded to 
what he supposed to be his highest step ,  but to what was ,  
in fact ,  his last plunge head - foremost in his tumble off his 
throne .  

He had issued a declaration that there should be no 
religious tests or penal laws ,  in order to let in the Catholics 
more easily  ;  but the Protestant dissenters ,  unmindful of 
themselves ,  had gallantly joined the regular church in 
opposing it tooth and nail .  The King and Father Petre 
now resolved to have this read ,  on a certain Sunday ,  in all 
the churches ,  and to order it to be circulated for that purpose 
by the bishops .  The latter took counsel with the Archbishop 
of Canterbury ,  who was in disgrace  ;  and they resolved that 
the declaration should nut be read ,  and that they would 
petition the King against it .  The Archbishop himself wrote 
out the petition ,  and six bishops went into the Kings 
bedchamber the same night to present it ,  to his infinite 
astonishment .  Next day was the Sunday fixed for the 
leading ,  and it was only read by two hundred clergymen out 
of ten thousand .  The King resolved against all advice to 
prosecute the bishops in the Court of Kings Bench ,  and 
within three weeks they were summoned before the Privy 
Council ,  and committed to the Tower .  As the six bishops 
were taken to that dismal place ,  by water ,  the people who 
were assembled in immense numbers fell upon their knees ,  
and wept for them ,  and prayed for them .  When they got 
to the Tower ,  the officers and soldiers on guard besought 
them for their blessing .  While they were confined there ,  the 
 . soldiers every day drank to then* release with loud shouts .  
When they were brought up to the Court of Kings Bench 
for their trial ,  which the Attorney -  General said was for the 
high offence of censuring the Government ,  and giving their 
opinion about affairs of state ,  they were attended by similar 
multitudes ,  and surrounded by a throng of noblemen and 
1 .  n d 



418 a childs history of England 

gentlemen .  When the jury went out at seven oclock at 
night to consider of their verdict ,  everybody  ( except the King )  
knew that they would rather starve than yield to the Kings 
brewer ,  who was one of them ,  and wanted a verdict for his 
customer .  When they came into court next morning ,  after 
resisting the brewer all night ,  and gave a verdict of not 
guilty ,  such a shout rose up in Westminster Hall as it had 
never heard before  ;  and it was passed on among the people 
away to Temple Bar ,  and away again to the Tower .  It did 
not pass only to the east ,  but passed to the west too .  until it 
reached the camp at Hounslow ,  where the fifteen thousand 
soldiers took it up and echoed it .  And still ,  when the dull 
King ,  who was then with Lord Feversham ,  heard the mighty 
roar ,  asked in alarm what it was ,  and was told that it was 
nothing but the acquittal of the bishops ,  "  he said ,  in his 
dogged way ,   " Call you that nothing? It is so much the 
worse for them .  "  

Between the petition and the trial ,  the Queen had given 
birth to a son ,  which Father Petre rather thought was owing 
to Saint Winifred .  But I doubt if Saint Winifred had much 
to do with it as the Kings friend ,  inasmuch as the entirely 
new prospect of a Catholic successor  ( for both the Kings 
daughters were Protestants )  determined the Earls of 
Shrewsbury ,  Danby ,  and Devonshire ,  Lord Lumley ,  the 
Bishop of London ,  Admiral Russell ,  and Colonel Sidney ,  
to invite the Prince of Orange over to England .  The Royal 
Mole ,  seeing his danger at last ,  made ,  in his fright ,  many 
great concessions ,  besides raising an army of forty thousand 
men  ;  but the Prince of Orange was not a man for James 
the Second to cope with .  His preparations were extra -  
ordinarily vigorous ,  and his mind was resolved .  

For a fortnight after the Prince was ready to sail for 
England ,  a great wind from the west prevented the departure 
of his fleet .  Even when the wind lulled ,  and it did sail ,  it 
was dispersed by a storm ,  and was obliged to put back to 
refit .  At last ,  on the first of November ,  one thousand six 
hundred and eighty - eight ,  the Protestant east wind ,  as it was 
long called ,  began to blow  ;  and on the third ,  the people of 
Dover and the people of Calais saw a fleet twenty miles long 
sailing gallantly by ,  between the two places .  On Monday ,  
the fifth ,  it anchored at Turbay in Devonshire ,  and the Prince ,  
with a splendid retinue of officers and men ,  marched into 
E \ eter .  But the people in that western part of the country 



JAMES THE SECOND 4T9 

had suffered so much in The Bloody Assize ,  that they had 
lost heart .  Few people joined him  ;  and he began to think 
of returning ,  and publishing the invitation he had received 
from those lords ,  as his justification for having come at all .  
At this crisis ,  some of the gentry joined him  ;  the Royal 
army began to falter  ;  an engagement was signed ,  by which 
all who set their hand to it declared that they would support 
one another in defence of the laws and liberties of the three 
Kingdoms ,  of the Protestant religion ,  and of the Prince of 
Orange .  From that time ,  the cause received no check  ;  the 
greatest towns in England began ,  one after another ,  to declare 
for the Prince  ;  and he knew that it was all safe with him 
when the University of Oxford offered to melt down its plate ,  
if he wanted any money .  

By this time the King was running about in a pitiable 
way ,  touching people for the Kings evil in one place ,  review -  
ing his troops in another ,  and bleeding from the nose in 
a third .  The young Prince was sent to Portsmouth ,  Father 
Pet re went off like a shot to France ,  and there was a general 
and swift dispersal of all the priests and friars .  One after 
another ,  the Kings most important officers and friends 
deserted him and went over to the Prince .  In the night ,  
his daughter Anne fled from Whitehall Palace  ;  and the 
Bishop of London ,  who had once been a soldier ,  rode before 
her with a drawn sword in his hand ,  and pistols at his 
saddle .   "  God help me ,  "  cried the miserable King :   ;  my 
very children have forsaken me  !   "  In his wildness ,  after 
debating with such lords as were in London ,  whether he 
should or should not call a Parliament ,  and after naming 
three of them to negotiate with the Prince ,  he resolved to 
fly to France .  He had the little Prince of Wales brought 
back from Portsmouth  ;  and the child and the Queen crossed 
the river to Lambeth in an open boat ,  on a miserable wet 
night ,  and got safely away .  This was on the night of the 
ninth of December .  

At one oclock on the morning of the eleventh ,  the King ,  
who had ,  in the meantime ,  received a letter from the Prince 
of Orange ,  stating his objects ,  got out of bed ,  told Lord 
Northumberland who lay in his room not to open the door 
until the usual hour in the morning ,  and went down the back 
stairs  ( the same ,  I suppose ,  by which the priest in the wig 
and gown had come up to his brother )  and crossed the river 
in a small boat: sinking the great seal of England by the 



420 A CHILD S HISTORY OF ENGLAND 

way .  Horses having been provided ,  lie rode ,  accompanied by 
Sir Edward Hales ,  to Feversham ,  where he embarked in 
a Custom House Hoy .  The master of this Hoy ,  wanting 
more ballast ,  ran into the Isle of Sheppy to get it ,  where the 
fishermen and smugglers crowded about the boat ,  and in -  
formed the King of their suspicions that he was a  "  hatchet -  
faced Jesuit ,  "  As they took his money and would not let 
him go ,  he told them who he was ,  and that the Prince of 
Orange wanted to take his life  ;  and he began to scream for 
a boat — and then to cry ,  because he had lost a piece of wood 
on his ride which he called a fragment of Our Saviours 
cross .  He put himself into the hands of the Lord Lieutenant 
of the county ,  and his detention was made known to the 
Prince of Orange at Windsor — who ,  only wanting to get rid 
of him ,  and not caring where he went ,  so that he went away ,  
was very much disconcerted that they did not let him go .  
However ,  there was nothing for it but to have him brought 
back ,  with some state in the way of Life Guards ,  to White -  
hall .  And as soon as he got there ,  in his infatuation ,  he 
heard mass ,  and set a Jesuit to say grace at his public 
dinner .  

The people had been thrown into the strangest state of 
confusion by his flight ,  and had taken it into their heads 
that the Irish part of the army were going to murder the 
Protestants .  Therefore ,  they set the bells a ringing ,  and 
lighted watch - fires ,  and burned Catholic Chapels ,  and looked 
about in all directions for Father Petre and the Jesuits ,  while 
the Popes ambassador was running away in the dress of 
a footman .  They found no Jesuits  ;  but a man ,  who hail 
once been a frightened witness before Jeffreys in court ,  saw 
a swollen drunken face looking through a window down at 
Wapping ,  which he well remembered .  The face was in 
a sailors dress ,  but he knew it to be the face of that accursed 
Judge ,  and he seized him .  The people ,  to their lasting 
honour ,  did not tear him to pieces .  After knocking him 
about a little ,  they took him ,  in the basest agonies of terror ,  
to the Lord Mayor ,  who sent him ,  at his own shrieking 
petition ,  to the Tower for safety .  There ,  he died .  

Their bewilderment continuing ,  the people now lighted 
bonfires and made rejoicings ,  as if they had any reason to be 
glad to have the King back again .  But .  his stay was very 
short ,  lor the English guards were removed from Whitehall ,  
Dutch guards were marched up to it .  and he was told by one 



JAMES THE SECOND 42 1 

of his late ministers that the Prince would enter London ,  
next day ,  and he had better go to Ham .  He said .  Ham was 
a cold damp place ,  and he would rather go to Rochester .  
He thought himself very cunning in this ,  as he meant to 
escape from Rochester to France .  The Prince of Orange 
and his friends knew that ,  perfectly well ,  and desired nothing -  
more .  So ,  he went to Gravesend ,  in his royal barge ,  attended 
by certain lords ,  and watched by Dutch troops ,  and pitied 
by the generous people ,  who were far more forgiving than he 
had ever been ,  when they saw him in his humiliation .  On 
the night of the twenty - third of December ,  not even then 
understanding that everybody wanted to get rid of him ,  he 
went out ,  absurdly ,  through his Eochester garden ,  down to 
the Medway ,  and got away to France ,  where he rejoined the 
Queen .  

There had been a council in his absence ,  of the lords ,  and 
the authorities of London .  When the Prince came ,  on the 
day after the Kings departure ,  he summoned the Lords to 
meet him ,  and soon afterwards ,  all those who had served in 
any of the Parliaments of King Charles the Second .  It was 
finally resolved by these authorities that the throne was 
vacant by the conduct of King James the Second  ;  that it 
was inconsistent with the safety and welfare of this Protestant 
kingdom ,  to lie governed by a Popish prince  ;  that the Prince 
and Princess of Orange should be King and Queen during 
their lives and the life of the survivor of them  ;  and that 
their children should succeed them ,  if they had any .  That 
if they had none ,  the Princess Anne and her children should 
succeed  ;  that if she had none ,  the heirs of the Prince of 
Orange should succeed .  

On the thirteenth of January ,  one thousand six hundred 
and eighty - nine ,  the Prince and Princess ,  sitting on a throne 
in Whitehall ,  bound themselves to these conditions .  The 
Protestant religion was established in England ,  and Englands 
great and glorious Revolution was complete .  



CHAPTER XXXYIT 

I have now arrived at the close of my little history .  The 
events which succeeded the famous Revolution of one thou ,  
sand six hundred and eighty - eight ,  would neither he easily 
related nor easily understood in such a book as this .  

William and Mary reigned together ,  five years .  After the 
death of his good wife ,  William occupied the throne ,  alone ,  
for seven years longer .  During his reign ,  on the sixteenth 
of September ,  one thousand seven hundred and one ,  the poor 
weak creature who had once been James the Second of 
England ,  died in France .  In the meantime he had done his 
utmost  ( which was not much )  to cause William to be assassi -  
nated ,  and to regain his lost dominions .  Jamess son was 
declared ,  by the French King ,  the rightful King of England  ;  
and was called in France The Chevalier Saint George ,  and 
in England The Pretender .  Some infatuated people in 
England ,  and particularly in Scotland ,  took up the Preten -  
ders cause from time to time — as if the country had not had 
Stuarts enough  !  — and many lives were sacrificed ,  and much 
misery was occasioned .  King William died on Sunday ,  the 
seventh of March ,  one thousand seven hundred and two ,  of 
the consequences of an accident occasioned by his horse 
stumbling with him .  He was always a brave patriotic Prince ,  
and a man of remarkable abilities .  His manner was cold ,  and 
he made but few friends  ;  but he had truly loved his queen .  
When he was dead ,  a lock of her hair ,  in a ring ,  was found 
tied with a black ribbon round his left arm .  

He was succeeded by the Princess Anne ,  a popular Queen ,  
who reigned twelve years .  In her reign ,  in the month of 
May ,  one thousand seven hundred and seven ,  the Union 
between England and Scotland was effected ,  and the two 
countries were incorporated under the name of Great 
Britain .  Then ,  from the year one thousand seven hundred 
and fourteen to the year one thousand eight hundred and 
thirty ,  reigned the four Georges .  

It was in the reign of George the Second ,  one thousand 
seven hundred and forty - five ,  that the Pretender did his last 
mischief ,  and made his last appearance .  Being an old man 



CONCLUSION 423 

by that time ,  he and the Jacobites —as his friends were called 
 - put forward his son Charles Edavard ,  known as the Young 
Chevalier .  The Highlanders of Scotland ,  an extremely 
troublesome and wrong - headed race on the subject of the 
Stuarts ,  espoused his cause ,  and he joined them ,  and there 
was a Scottish rebellion to make him king ,  in which many 
gallant and devoted gentlemen lost their lives .  It was a hard 
matter for Charles Edward to escape abroad again ,  with 
a high price on his head  ;  but the Scottish people were extra -  
ordinarily faithful to him ,  and ,  after undergoing many 
romantic adventures ,  not unlike those of Charles the Second ,  
he escaped to France .  A number of charming stories and 
delightful songs arose out of the Jacobite feelings ,  and 
belong to the Jacobite times .  Otherwise I think the Stuarts 
were a public nuisance altogether .  

It was in the reign of George the Third that England lost 
North America ,  by persisting in taxing her without her own 
consent .  That immense country ,  made independent under 
Washington ,  and left to itself ,  became the United States  ;  
one of the greatest nations of the earth .  In these times in 
which I write ,  it is honourably remarkable for protecting its 
subjects ,  wherever they may travel ,  with a dignity and a 
determination which is a model for England .  Between you 
and me ,  England has rather lost ground in this respect since 
the days of Oliver Cromwell .  

The Union of Great Britain with Ireland — which had been 
getting on very ill by itself — took place in the reign of 
George the Third ,  on the second of July ,  one thousand seven 
hundred and ninety - eight .  

William the Fourth succeeded George the Fourth ,  in the 
year one thousand eight hundred and thirty ,  and reigned 
seven years .  Queen Victoria ,  his niece ,  the only child ol 
the Duke of Kent ,  the fourth son of George the Third ,  came 
to the throne on the twentieth of June ,  one thousand eight 
hundred and thirty - seven .  She was married to Prince 
Albert of Saxe Gotha on the tenth of February ,  one thou -  
sand eight hundred and forty .  She is very good ,  and much 
beloved .  So I end ,  like the crier ,  with 

God Save the Queen  !  

the end .  