
THE FIRST FORTY - NINE STORIES 

by 
ERNEST HEMINGWAY 


PREFACE 

THERE is not much to say about these stories .  The first four 
are the last ones I have written .  The others follow in the 
order in which they were originally published .  

The first one I wrote was Up in Michigan ,  written in 
Paris in 1921 .  The last was Old Man at the Bridge ,  cabled 
from Barcelona in April of 1938 .  

I wrote The Killers ,  To - day Is Friday ,  Ten Indians "  ,  
part of Fiesta ,  and the first third of To Have and Have Not 
in Madrid .  It was always a good place for working .  So was 
Paris ,  and so were Key West ,  Florida ,  in the cool months ;  the 
ranch ,  near Cooke City ,  Montana ;  Kansas City ;  Chicago ;  
Toronto ,  and Havana ,  Cuba .  

Some other places were not so good ,  but maybe we were 
not so good when we were in them .  

There are many kinds of stories in this book .  I hope that 
you will find some that you like .  Reading them over ,  the ones 
I liked the best ,  outside of those that have achieved some 
notoriety so that school teachers include them in story col -  
lections that their pupils have to buy in story courses ,  and 
you are always faintly embarrassed to read them and wonder 
whether you really wrote them or did you maybe hear them ,  
somewhere ,  are The Short Happy Life of Francis Macomber ,  
In Another Country 5  ,  Hills Like White Elephants ,  A Way 
Youll Never Be ,  The Snows of Kilimanjaro ,  A Clean ,  
Well - Lighted Place ,  and a story called The Light of the 
World ,  which nobody else ever liked .  There are some others 
too .  Because if you did not like them you would not publish 
them .  

In going where you have to go ,  and doing what you have 
to do ,  and seeing what you have to see ,  you dull and blunt 
the instrument you write with .  But I would rather have it 
bent and dulled and know I had to put it on the grindstone 
again and hammer it into shape and put a whetstone to it ,  
and know that I had something to write about ,  than to have 



8 PREFACE 

it bright and shining and nothing to say ,  or smooth and well 
oiled in the closet ,  but unused .  < 

Now it is necessary to get to the grindstone again .  I would 
like to live long enough to write three more novels and 
twenty - five more stories .  I know some pretty good ones .  

ERNEST HEMINGWAY 



THE SHORT HAPPY LIFE OF 
FRANCIS MACOMBER 

IT was now lunch time and they were all sitting under the 
double green fly of the dining tent pretending thit nothing 
had happened .  

Will you have lime juice or lemon squash ?  5 Macomber 
asked .  

Til have a gimlet /  Robert Wilson told him .  

Til have a gimlet too .  I need something ,  Macombers 
wife said .  

I suppose its the thing to do /  Macomber agreed .  Tell 
him to make three gimlets .  

The mess boy had started them already ,  lifting the bottles 
out of the canvas cooling bags that sweated wet in the wind 
that blew through the trees that shaded the tents .  

What had I ought to give them ?  Macomber asked .  

A quid would be plenty /  Wilson told him .  You dont 
want to spoil them .  

Will the headman distribute it ?  

Absolutely .  

Francis Macomber had ,  half an hour before ,  been carried 
to his tent from the edge of the camp in triumph on the arms 
and shoulders of the cook ,  the personal boys ,  the skinner and 
the porters .  The gun - bearers had taken no part in the 
demonstration .  When the native boys put him down at the 
door of his tent ,  he had shaken all their hands ,  received their 
congratulations ,  and then gone into the tent and sat on the 
bed until his wife came in .  She did not speak to him when 
she came in and he left the tent at once to wash his face and 
hands in the portable wash basin outside and go over to the 
dining tent to sit in a comfortable canvas chair in the breeze 
and the shade .  

Mrs .  Macomber looked at Wilson quickly .  She was an 
extremely handsome and well - kept woman of the beauty and 
social position which had ,  five years before ,  commanded five 



io HAPPY LIFE OF FRANCIS MACOMBER 

thousand dollars as the price of endorsing ,  with photographs ,  
a beauty product which she had never used .  She had been 
married to Francis Macomber for eleven years .  

He is a good lion ,  isnt he ?  Macomber said .  His wife 
looked at him now .  She looked at both these men as though 
she had never seen them before .  

One ,  Wilson ,  the white hunter ,  she knew she had never 
truly seen before .  He was about middle height with sandy 
hair ,  a stubby moustache ,  a very red face and extremely cold 
blue eyes with faint white wrinkles at the corners that grooved 
merrily when he smiled .  He smiled at her now and she 
looked away from his face at the way his shoulders sloped in 
the loose tunic he wore with the four big cartridges held in 
loops where the left breast pocket should have been ,  at his 
big brown hands ,  his old slacks ,  his very dirty boots ,  and back 
to his red face again .  She noticed where the baked red of his 
face stopped in a white line that marked the circle left by his 
Stetson hat that hung now from one of the pegs of the tent pole .  

Well ,  heres to the lion ,  5 Robert Wilson said .  He smiled at 
her again and ,  not smiling ,  she looked curiously at her 
husband .  

Francis Macomber was very tall ,  very well built if you did 
not mind that length of bone ,  dark ,  his hair cropped like an 
oarsman ,  rather thin - lipped ,  and was considered handsome .  
He was dressed in the same sort of safari clothes that Wilson 
wore except that his were new ,  he was thirty - five years old ,  
kept himself very fit ,  was good at court games ,  had a number 
of big -  game fishing records ,  and had just shown himself ,  very 
publicly ,  to be a coward .  

Heres to the lion ,  he said .  I cant ever thank you for 
what you did .  

Margaret ,  his wife ,  looked away from him and back to 
Wilson .  

Lets not talk about the lion ,  5 she said .  

Wilson looked over at her without smiling and now she 
smiled at him .  



HAPPY LIFE OF FRANCIS MACOMBER n 

Its been a very strange day /  she said .  Hadnt you ought 
to put your hat on even under the canvas at noon ?  You told 
me that ,  you know .  

Might put it on ,  said Wilson .  

You know you have a very red face ,  Mr .  Wilson ,  she told 
him and smiled again .  

Drink /  said Wilson .  

I dont think so /  she said .  Francis drinks a great deal ,  but 
his face is never red .  3 

Its red to - day /  Macomber tried a joke .  

No /  said Margaret .  Its mine thats red to - day .  But Mr .  
Wilsons is always red .  

Must be racial /  said Wilson .  I say ,  you wouldnt like to 
drop my beauty as a topic ,  would you ?  

Ive just started on it .  

Lets chuck it /  said Wilson .  

Conversation is going to be so difficult /  Margaret said .  

Dont bo silly ,  Margot /  her husband said .  

No difficulty /  Wilson said .  Got a damn fine lion .  

Margot looked at them both and they both saw that she 
was going to cry .  Wilson had seen it coming for a long time 
and he dreaded it .  Macomber was past dreading it .  

I wish it hadnt happened .  Oh ,  I wish it hadnt happened /  
she said and started for her tent .  She made no noise of crying 
but they could see that her shoulders were shaking under the 
rose - coloured ,  sun - proofed shirt she wore .  

Women upset /  said Wilson to the tall man .  Amounts to 
nothing .  Strain on the nerves and one thing n another .  

No /  said Macomber .  I suppose that I rate that for the 
rest of my life now .  

Nonsense .  Lets have a spot of the giant killer /  said Wilson .  
Forget the whole thing .  Nothing to it anyway .  

We might try /  said Macomber .  I wont forget what you 
did for me though .  

Nothing /  said Wilson .  All nonsense .  

So they sat there in the shade where the camp was pitched 



12 HAPPY LIFE OF FRANCIS MACOMBER 

under some wide - topped acacia trees with a boulder - strewn 
cliff behind them ,  and a stretch of grass that ran to the bank 
of a boulder - filled stream in front with forest beyond it ,  and 
drank their just - cool lime drinks and avoided one anothers 
eyes while the boys set the table for lunch .  Wilson could 
tell that the boys all knew about it now and When he saw 
Macombers personal boy looking curiously at his master 
while he was putting dishes on the table he snapped at him 
in Swahili .  The boy turned away with his face blank .  

What were you telling him ?  Macomber asked .  

Nothing .  Told him to look alive or Id see he got about 
fifteen of the best .  

Whats that ?  Lashes ?  

Its quite illegal ,  Wilson said .  Youre supposed to fine 
them .  

Do you still have them whipped ?  

Oh ,  yes .  They could raise a row if they chose to complain .  
But they dont .  They prefer it to the fines .  

How strange! said Macomber .  

Not strange ,  really ,  Wilson said .  Which would you 
rather do ?  Take a good birching or lose your pay ?  

Then he felt embarrassed at asking it and before 
Macomber could answer he went on ,  We all take a beating 
eVery day ,  you know ,  one way or another .  

This was no better .  Good God ,  he thought .  I am a 
diplomat ,  arent I ?  

Yes ,  we take a beating ,  said Macomber ,  still not looking 
at hini .  Im awfully sorry about that lion business .  It 
doesnt have to go any further ,  does it ?  I mean no one will 
hear about it ,  will they ?  

You mean will I tell it at the Mathaiga Club ?  Wilson 
looked at him now coldly .  He had not expected this .  So hes 
a bloody four - letter man as well as a bloody coward ,  he 
thought .  I rather liked him too until to - day .  But how is one 
to know about an American ?  

No ,  5 said Wilson .  Im a professional hunter .  We never talk 



HAPPY LIFE OF FRANCIS MACOMBER 13 

about our clients .  You can be quite easy on that .  Its 
supposed to be bad form to ask us not to talk though .  

tL had decided now that to break would be much easier .  
He would eat ,  then ,  by himself and could read a book v / ith 
his meals .  They would eat by themselves .  He would see 
them through the safari on a very formal basis what was it 
the French called it ?  Distinguished consideration and it 
would be a damn sight easier than having to go through this 
emotional trash .  Hed insult him and make a good clean 
break .  Then he could read a book with his meals and hed 
still be drinking their whisky .  That was the phrase for it 
when a safari went bad .  You ran into another white hunter 
and you asked ,  c How is everything going ?  and he answered ,  
c Oh ,  Im still drinking their whisky ,  and you knew every -  
thing had gone to pot .  

Im sorry ,  Macomber said and looked at him with his 
American face that would stay adolescent until it became 
middle - aged ,  and Wilson noted his crew - cropped hair ,  fine 
eyes only faintly shifty ,  good nose ,  thin lips and handsome 
jaw .  Im sorry I didnt realize that .  There are lots of 
things I dont know .  

So what could he do ,  Wilson thought .  He was all ready to 
break it off quickly and neatly and here the beggar was 
apologizing after he had just insulted him .  He made one 
more attempt .  Dont worry about me talking ,  he said .  I 
have a living to make .  You know in Africa no woman ever 
misses her lion and no white man ever bolts .  

I bolted like a rabbit ,  Macomber said .  

Now what in hell were you going to do about a man who 
talked like that ,  Wilson wondered .  

Wilson looked at Macomber with his flat ,  blue ,  machine -  
gunners eyes and the other smiled back at him .  He had a 
pleasant smile if you did not notice how his eyes showed 
when he was hurt .  

Maybe I can fix it up on buffalo ,  he said .  Were after 
them next ,  arent we ?  



i 4 HAPPY LIFE OF FRANCIS MACOMBER 

c ln the morning if you like /  Wilson told him .  Perhaps he 
had been wrong .  This was certainly the way to take it .   / ou 
most certainly could not tell a damned thing about an 
American .  He was all for Macomber again .  If you could 
forget the morning .  But ,  of course ,  you couldnt .  The 
morning had been about as bad as they come .  

Here comes the Memsahib ,  he said .  She was walking 
over from her tent looking refreshed and cheerful and quite 
lovely .  She had a very perfect oval face ,  so perfect that you 
expected her to be stupid .  But she wasnt stupid ,  Wilson 
thought ,  no ,  not stupid .  

How is the beautiful red - faced Mr .  Wilson ?  Are you 
feeling better ,  Francis ,  my pearl ?  

Oh ,  much ,  said Macomber .  

Ive dropped the whole thing ,  she said ,  sitting down at 
the table .  What importance is there to whether Francis is 
any good at killing lions ?  Thats not his trade .  Thats Mr .  
Wilsons trade .  Mr .  Wilson is really very impressive killing 
anything .  You do kill anything ,  dont you ?  

Oh ,  anything ,  said Wilson .  Simply anything .  3 They 
are ,  he thought ,  the hardest in the world ;  the hardest ,  the 
cruellest ,  the most predatory and the most attractive and 
their men have softened or gone to pieces nervously as they 
have hardened .  Or is it that they pick men they can handle ?  
They cant know that much at the age they marry ,  he -  
thought .  He was grateful that he had gone through his educa -  
tion on American women before now because this was a very 
attractive one .  

Were going after buff in the morning ,  he told her .  

Im coming ,  she said .  

No youre not .  

Oh ,  yes ,  I am .  Maynt I ,  Francis ?  

Why not stay in camp ?  

Not for anything ,  she said .  I wouldnt miss something 
like to - day for anything .  

When she left ,  Wilson was thinking ,  when she went off to 



HAPPY LIFE OF FRANCIS MACOMBER 15 

cry she seemed a hell of a fine woman .  She seemed to 
understand ,  to realize ,  to be hurt for him and for herself and 
to k*now how things really stood .  She is away for twenty 
minutes and now she is back ,  simply enamelled in that 
American female cruelty .  They are the damnedest womeji .  
Really the clamnedest .  

Well put on another show for you to - morrow ,  Francis 
Macomber said .  

Youre not coming ,  Wilson said .  

Youre very mistaken ,  she told him .  And I want so to 
see you perform again .  You were lovely this morning .  That 
is if blowing things heads off is lovely .  

Heres the lunch ,  said Wilson .  Youre very merry ,  
arent you ?  

Why not ?  I didnt come out here to be dull .  

Well ,  it hasnt been dull ,  Wilson said .  He could see the 
boulders in the river and the high bank beyond with the 
trees and he remembered the morning .  

Oh ,  no /  she said .  Its been charming .  And to - morrow .  
You dont know how I look forward to to - morrow .  

Thats eland hes offering you ,  Wilson said .  

Theyre the big cowy things that jump like hares ,  arent 
they ?  

I suppose that describes them ,  Wilson said .  

Its very good meat ,  Macomber said .  

Did you shoot it ,  Francis ?  she asked .  

Yes .  

Theyre not dangerous ,  are they ?  

Only if they fall on you ,  Wilson told her .  

Im so glad .  

Why not let up on the bitchery just a little ,  Margot ,  
Macomber said ,  cutting the eland steak and putting some 
mashed potato ,  gravy and carrot on the down - turned fork 
that tined through the piece of meat .  

I suppose I could ,  she said ,  since you put it so 
prettily .  



16 HAPPY LIFE OF FRANCIS M A C O M B E R 

To - night well have champagne for the lion ,  Wilson said .  
Its a bit too hot at noon .  

Oh ,  the lion ,  Margot said .  Td forgotten the lion!  -  

So ,  Robert Wilson thought to himself ,  she is giving him a 
ride ,  isnt she ?  Or do you suppose thats her idea of putting 
up a good show ?  How should a woman act when she 
discovers her husband is a bloody coward ?  Shes damn cruel 
but theyre all cruel .  They govern ,  of course ,  and to govern 
one has to be cruel sometimes .  Still ,  Ive seen enough of 
their damn terrorism .  

Have some more eland ,  he said to her politely .  

That afternoon ,  late ,  Wilson and Macomber went out in 
the motor car with the native driver and the two gun - bearers .  
Mrs .  Macomber stayed in the camp .  It was too hot to go out ,  
she said ,  and she was going with them in the early morning .  
As they drove off Wilson saw her standing under the big 
tree looking pretty rather than beautiful in her faintly rosy 
khaki ,  her dark hair drawn back off her forehead and 
gathered in a knot low on her neck ,  her face as fresh ,  he 
thought ,  as though she were in England .  She waved to them 
as the car went off through the swale of high grass and 
curved around through the trees into the small hills of 
orchard bush .  

In the orchard bush they found a herd of impala ,  and 
leaving the car they stalked one old ram with long ,  wide -  
spread horns and Macomber killed it with a very creditable ,  
shot that knocked the buck down at a good two hundred yards 
and sent the herd off bounding wildly and leaping over one 
anothers backs in long ,  leg - drawn - up leaps as unbelievable 
and as floating as those one makes sometimes in dreams .  

That was a good shot ,  Wilson said .  Theyre a small 
target .  5 

Is it a worth - while head ?  Macomber asked .  

Its excellent ,  Wilson told him .  You shoot like that and 
youll have no trouble .  

Do you think well find buffalo to - morrow ?  5 



HAPPY LIFE OF FRANCIS MACOMBER 17 

Theres a good chance of it .  They feed out early in the 
morning and with luck we may catch them in the open .  

Id like to clear away that lion business /  Macomber said .  
Its not very pleasant to have your wife see you do somp .  
thing like that .  

I should think it would be even more unpleasant to do it ,  
Wilson thought ,  wife or no wife ,  or to talk about it having 
done it .  But he said ,  C I wouldnt think about that any more .  
Anyone could be upset by his first lion .  Thats all over .  

But that night after dinner and a whisky and soda by the 
fire before going to bed ,  as Francis Macomber lay on his cot 
with the mosquito bar over him and listened to the night 
noises it was not all over .  It was neither all over nor was it 
beginning .  It was there exactly as it happened with some 
parts of it indelibly emphasized and he was miserably 
ashamed at it .  But more than shame he felt cold ,  hollow 
fear in him .  The fear was still there like a cold slimy hollow 
in all the emptiness where once his confidence had been and 
it made him feel sick .  It was still there with him now .  

It had started the night before when he had wakened and 
heard the lion roaring somewhere up along the river .  It was 
a deep sound and at the end there were sort of coughing grunts 
that made him seem just outside the tent ,  and when Francis 
Macomber woke in the night to hear it he was afraid .  He 
could hear his wife breathing quietly ,  asleep .  There was no 
one to tell he was afraid ,  nor to be afraid with him ,  and ,  
lying alone ,  he did not know the Somali proverb that says 
a brave man is always frightened three times by a lion ;  when 
he first sees his track ,  when he first hears him roar and when 
he first confronts him .  Then while they were eating break -  
fast by lantern light out in the dining tent ,  before the sun 
was up ,  the lion roared again and Francis thought he was 
just at the edge of camp .  

Sounds like an old - timer ,  Robert Wilson said ,  looking up 
from his kippers and coffee .  Listen to him cough .  

Is he very close ?  



i$ HAPPY LIFE OF FRANCIS MACOMBER 

A mile or so up the stream .  

Will we see him ?  5  

Well have a look .  

Does his roaring carry that far ?  It sounds as though he 
were right in camp .  5 

^Carries a hell of a long way ,  said Robert Wilson ,  c lts 
strange the way it carries .  Hope hes a shootable cat .  The 
boys said there was a very big one about here .  

If I get a shot ,  where should I hit him ,  Macomber asked ,  
to stop him ?  

In the shoulders ,  Wilson said .  In the neck if you can 
make it .  Shoot for bone .  Break him down .  

I hope I can place it properly ,  Macomber said .  

You shoot very well ,  Wilson told him .  Take your time .  
Make sure of him .  The first one in is the one that counts .  5 

What range will it be ?  

Cant tell .  Lion has something to say about that .  Dont 
shoot unless its close enough so you can make sure .  5 

At under a hundred yards ?  Macomber asked .  

Wilson looked at him quickly .  

Hundreds about right .  Might have to take him a bit 
under .  Shouldn 5 t chance a shot at much over that .  A 
hundreds a decent range .  You can hit him wherever you 
want at that .  Here comes the Memsahib .  

Good morning ,  5 she said .  Are we going after that lion ?  

As soon as you deal with your breakfast ,  5 Wilson said .  
How are you feeling ?  

Marvellous ,  5 she said .  Tm very excited .  5 

Til just go and see that everything is ready .  Wilson went 
off .  As he left the lion roared again .  

Noisy beggar ,  5 Wilson said .  Well put a stop to that .  

*What 5 s the matte* ,  Francis ?  5 his wife asked him .  

Nothing ,  5 Macomber said .  

Yes ,  there is ,  5 she said .  What are you upset about ?  5 

Nothing ,  5 he said .  

Tell me ,  5 she looked at him .  Dont you feel yvell ?  5 



HAPPY LIFE OF FRANCIS M A C O M B E R 19 

Its that damned roaring ,  he said .  Its been going on all 
night ,  you know .  

f Why didnt you wake me ,  she said .  Td love to have 
heard it .  

Ive got to kill the damned thing ,  Macomber s~id ,  
miserably .  

Well ,  thats what youre out here for ,  isnt it ?  

Yes .  But Im nervous .  Hearing the thing roar gets on my 
nerves .  

Well ,  then ,  as Wilson said ,  kill him and stop his roaring /  

Yes ,  darling ,  said Francis Macomber .  It sounds easy ,  
doesnt it ?  

Youre not afraid ,  are you ?  

Of course not .  But Im nervous from hearing him roar 
all night .  

Youll kill him marvellously ,  she said .  I know you will .  
Im awfully anxious to see it .  

Finish your breakfast and well be starting .  

Its not light yet ,  she said .  This is a ridiculous hour .  

Just then the lion roared in a deep - chested moaning ,  sud -  
denly guttural ,  ascending vibration that seemed to shake the 
air and ended in a sigh and a heavy ,  deep - chested grunt .  

He sounds almost here ,  Macombers wife said .  

My God ,  said Macomber .  I hate that damned noise .  

Its very impressive .  

Impressive .  Its frightful .  

Robert Wilson came up then carrying his short ,  ugly ,  
shockingly big - bored  . 505 Gibbs and grinning .  

Come on ,  he said .  Your gun - bearer has your Springfield 
and the big gun .  Everythings in the car .  Have you solids ?  

Yes .  5 

Im ready ,  Mrs .  Macomber said .  

Must make him stop that racket ,  Wilson said .  You get in 
front .  The Memsahib can sit back here with me .  

They climbed into the motor car and ,  in the grey first day -  
light ,  moved off up the river through the trees .  Macomber 



20 HAPPY LIFE OF FRANCIS MACOMBER 

opened the breach of his rifle and saw he had metal - cased 
bullets ,  shut the bolt and put the rifle on safety .  He saw his 
hand was trembling .  He felt in his pocket for more cartridges 
ar*d moved his fingers over the cartridges in the loops of his 
tunic front .  He turned back to where Wilson sat in the rear 
seat of the doorless ,  box - bodied motor car beside his wife ,  
them both grinning with excitement ,  and Wilson leaned 
forward and whispered .  

See the birds dropping .  Means the old boy has left his 
kill .  

On the far bank of the stream Macomber could see ,  above 
the trees ,  vultures circling and plummeting down .  

Chances are hell come to drink along here /  Wilson 
whispered .  Before he goes to lay up .  Keep an eye out .  

They were driving slowly along the high bank of the stream 
which here cut deeply to its boulder - filled bed ,  and they 
wound in and out through big trees as they drove .  Macomber 
was watching the opposite bank when he felt Wilson take 
hold of his arm .  The car stopped .  

There he is ,  he heard the whisper .  Ahead and to the 
right .  Get out and take him .  Hes a marvellous lion .  

Macomber saw the lion now .  He was standing almost 
broadside ,  his great head up and turned toward them .  The 
earlymorning breeze that blew toward them was just stirring 
his dark mane ,  and the lion looked huge ,  silhouetted on the rise 
of bank in the grey morning light ,  his shoulders heavy ,  his 
barrel of a body bulking smoothly .  

How far is he ?  asked Macomber ,  raising his rifle .  

About seventy - five .  Get out and take him .  5 

Why not shoot from where I am ?  

You dont shoot them from cars ,  he heard Wilson saying 
in his ear .  Get out .  Hes not going to stay there all day .  

Macomber stepped out of the curved opening at the side 
of the front seat ,  on to the step and down on to the ground .  
The lion still stood looking majestically and coolly toward 
this object that his eyes only showed in silhouette ,  bulking 



HAPPY LIFE OF FRANCIS MACOMBER 21 

like some super - rhino .  There was no man smell carried 
toWard him and he watched the object ,  moving his great 
head a little from side to side .  Then watching the object ,  
not afraid ,  but hesitating before going down the bartk . to 
drink with such a thing opposite him ,  he saw aman figure 
detach itself from it and he turned his heavy head and 
swung away toward the cover of the trees as he heard a 
cracking crash and felt the slam of a  . 30 - 06 220 - grain solid 
bullet that bit his flank and ripped in sudden hot scalding 
nausea through his stomach .  He trotted ,  heavy ,  big - footed ,  
swinging wounded full - bellied ,  through the trees toward 
the tall grass and cover ,  and the crash came again to go 
past him ripping the air apart .  Then it crashed again and 
he felt the blow as it hit his lower ribs and ripped on 
through ,  blood sudden hot and frothy in his mouth ,  and he 
galloped toward the high grass where he could crouch and 
not be seen and make them bring the crashing thing close 
enough so he could make a rush and get the man that held it .  
Macomber had not thought how the lion felt as he got out 
of the car .  He only knew his hands were shaking and as he 
walked away from the car it was almost impossible for him to 
make his legs move .  They were stiff in the thighs ,  but he 
could feel the muscles fluttering .  He raised the rifle ,  sighted 
on the junction of the lions head and shoulders and pulled 
the trigger .  Nothing happened though he pulled until he 
thought his finger would break .  Then he knew he had the 
safety on and as he lowered the rifle to move the safety over 
he moved another frozen pace forward ,  and the lion seeing 
his silhouette now clear of the silhouette of the car ,  turned 
and started off at a trot ,  and ,  as Macomber fired ,  he heard 
a whunk that meant that the bullet was home ;  but the lion 
kept on going .  Macomber shot again and everyone saw the 
bullet throw a spout of dirt beyond the trotting lion .  He 
shot again ,  remembering to lower his aim ,  and they all 
heard the bullet hit ,  and the lion went into a gallop and was 
in the tall grass before he had the bolt pushed forward .  



22 HAPPY LIFE OF FRANCIS MACOMBER 

Macomber stood there feeling sick at his stomach ,  his 
hands that held the Springfield still cocked ,  shaking ,  and his 
wife and Robert Wilson were standing by him .  Beside him 
too ,  , were the two gun - bearers chattering in Wakamba .  

I .  hit him /  Macomber said .  I hit him twice .  

You gut - shot him and you hit him somewhere forward /  
Wilson said without enthusiasm .  The gun - bearers looked 
very grave .  They were silent now .  

You may have killed him ,  Wilson went on .  Well have 
to wait a while before we go in to find out .  

What do you mean ?  

Let him get sick before we follow him up .  

Oh ,  said Macomber .  

Hes a hell of a fine lion ,  Wilson said cheerfully .  Hes 
gotten into a bad place though .  

Why is it bad ?  

Cant see him until youre on him .  

Oh ,  said Macomber .  

Come on ,  said Wilson .  The Memsahib can stay here in 
the car .  Well go to have a look at the blood spoor .  

Stay here ,  Margot ,  Macomber said to his wife .  His 
mouth was very dry and it was hard for him to talk .  

Why ?  she asked .  

Wilson says to .  

Were going to have a look ,  Wilson said .  You stay here .  
You can see even better from here .  

All right .  

Wilson spoke in Swahili to the driver .  He nodded and 
said ,  Yes ,  Bwana .  

Then they went down the steep bank and across the 
stream ,  climbing over and around the boulders and up the 
other bank ,  pulling up by some projecting roots ,  and along it 
until they found where the lion had been trotting when 
Macomber first shot .  There was dark blood on the short 
grass that the gun - bearers pointed out with grass stems ,  and 
that ran away behind the river bank trees .  



HAPPY LIFE OF FRANCIS MACOMBER 23 

What do we do ?  asked Macomber .  

Not much choice ,  said Wilson .  We cant bring the car 
over! Banks too steep .  Well let him stiffen up a bit and then 
you and Ill go in and have a look for him .  

Cant we set the grass on lire ?  Macomber asked .  

Too green .  

Cant we send beaters ?  

Wilson looked at him appi^iisingly .  Of course We can /  he 
said .  But its just a touch murderous .  You see we know the 
lions wounded .  You can drive an unwounded lion hell 
move on ahead of a noise but a wounded lions going to 
charge .  You cant see him until youre right on him .  Hell 
make himself perfectly flat in cover you wouldnt think would 
hide a hare .  You cant very well send boys in there to that 
sort of a show .  Somebody bound to get mauled .  

What about the gun - bearers ?  

Oh ,  theyll go with us .  Its their shauri .  You see ,  they 
signed on for it .  They dont look too happy though ,  do they ? * 

I dont want to go in there ,  said Macomber .  It was out 
before he knew hed said it .  

Neither do I ,  said Wilson very cheerily .  Really no 
choice though .  Then ,  as an afterthought ,  he glanced at 
Macomber and saw suddenly how he was trembling and the 
pitiful look on his face .  

You dont have to go in ,  of course ,  he said .  Thats what 
Im hired for ,  you know .  Thats why Im so expensive .  

You mean youd go in by yourself ?  Why not leave hirm 
there ?  

Robert Wilson ,  whose entire occupation had been with the 
lion and the problem he presented ,  and who had not been 
thinking about Macomber except to note that he was rather 
windy ,  suddenly felt as though he had opened the wrong door 
in an hotel and seen something shameful .  

What do you mean ?  

Why not just leave him ?  

You mean pretend to ourselves he hasnt been hit ?  5 



24 HAPPY LIFE OF FRANCIS MACOMBER 

No .  Just drop it .  

It isnt done .  

Why not ?  

 - for one thing ,  hes certain to be suffering .  For another ,  
someone efse might run onto him .  

I see .  

*But you dont have to have anything to do with it .  

Td like to ,  Macomber said .  Im just scared ,  you know .  

Ill go ahead when we go in ,  Wilson said ,  with Kongoni 
tracking .  You keep behind me and a little to one side .  
Chances are well hear him growl .  If we see him well both 
shoot .  Dont worry about any thing .  Ill keep you backed up .  
As a matter of fact ,  you know ,  perhaps youd better not go .  
It might be much better .  Why dont you go over and join 
the Memsahib while I just get it over with ?  

No ,  I want to go .  

*A11 right ,  said Wilson .  But dont go in if you dont want 
to .  This is my shauri now ,  you know .  

I want to go ,  said Macomber .  

They sat under a tree and smoked .  

Want to go back and speak to the Memsahib while were 
waiting ?  Wilson asked .  

No .  

Til just step back and tell her to be patient .  

*Good /  said Macomber .  He sat there ,  sweating under his 
arms ,  his mouth dry ,  his stomach hollow feeling ,  wanting to 
find courage to tell Wilson to go on and finish off the lion 
without him .  He could not know that Wilson was furious be -  
cause he had not noticed the state he was in earlier and sent 
him back to his wife .  While he sat there Wilson came up .  I 
have your big gun ,  he said .  Take it .  Weve given him time ,  
I think .  Come on .  

Macomber took the big gun and Wilson said: 

Keep behind me and about five yards to the right and do 
exactly as I tell you .  3 Then he spoke in Swahili to the two 
:gun - bearers who looked the picture of gloom .  



HAPPY LIFE OF FRANCIS MACOMBER 25 

Lets go ,  he said .  

Could I have a drink of water ?  Macomber asked .  Wilson 
spoSe to the older gun - bearer ,  who wore a canteen on his belt 
and the man unbuckled it ,  unscrewed the top and handed it 
to Macomber ,  who took it noticing how heavy it Seemed a<nd 
how hairy and shoddy the felt covering was in his hand .  He 
raised it to drink and looked ahead at the high grass with the 
flat - topped trees behind it .  A breeze was blowing toward 
them and the grass rippled gently in the wind .  He looked at 
the gun - bearer and he could see the gun - bearer was 
suffering too with fear .  

Thirty - five yards into the grass the big lion lay flattened 
out along the ground .  His ears were back and his only move -  
ment was a slight twitching up and down of his long ,  black -  
tufted tail .  He had turned at bay as soon as he had reached 
this cover and he was sick with the wound through his full 
belly ,  and weakening with the wound through his lungs that 
brought a thin foamy red to his mouth each time he 
breathed .  His flanks were wet and hot and flies were on the 
little opening the solid bullets had made in his tawny hide ,  
and his big yellow eyes ,  narrowed with hate ,  looked straight 
ahead ,  only blinking when the pain came as he breathed ,  
and his claws dug in the soft baked earth .  All of him ,  pain ,  
sickness ,  hatred and all of his remaining strength ,  was 
tightening into an absolute concentration for a rush .  He 
could hear the men talking and he waited ,  gathering all of 
himself into this preparation for a charge as soon as the men 
would come into the grass .  As he heard their voices his tail 
stiffened to twitch up and down ,  and ,  as they came into the 
edge of the grass ,  he made a "  coughing grunt and charged .  

Kongoni ,  the old gun - bearer ,  in the lead watching the 
blood spoor ,  Wilson watching the grass for any movement ,  
his big gun ready ,  the second gun - bearer looking ahead and 
listening ,  Macomber close to Wilson ,  his rifle cocked ,  they 
had just moved into the grass when Macomber heard the 
blood - choked cbughing grunt ,  and saw the swishing rush in 



26 HAPPY LIFE OF FRANCIS MACOMBER 

the grass .  The next thing he knew he was running ;  running 
wildly ,  in panic in the open ,  running toward the stream .  

He heard the ca - ra - wong \  of Wilsons big rifle ,  and again 
in %  " second crashing carawongl and turning saw the lion ,  
horrible - looking now ,  with half his head seeming to be gone ,  
crawling toward Wilson in the edge of the tall grass while 
the red - faced man worked the bolt on the short ugly rifle and 
aimed carefully as another blasting carawongl came from the 
muzzle ,  and the crawling ,  heavy ,  yellow bulk of the lion stif -  
fened and the huge ,  mutilated head slid forward and Macom -  
ber ,  standing by himself in the clearing where he had run ,  
holding a loaded rifle ,  while two black men and a white man 
looked back at him in contempt ,  knew the lion was dead .  
He came toward Wilson ,  his tallness all seeming a naked 
reproach ,  and Wilson looked at him and said: 

Want to take pictures ?  

No ,  he said .  

That was all anyone had said until they reached the motor 
car .  Then Wilson had said: 

Hell of a fine lion .  Boys will skin him out .  We might as 
well stay here in the shade .  

Macombers wife had not looked at him nor he at her and 
he had sat by her in the back seat with Wilson sitting in the 
front seat .  Once he had reached over and taken his wifes 
hand without looking at her and she had removed her hand 
from his .  Looking across the stream to where the gun -  
bearers were skinning out the lion he could see that she had 
been able to see the whole thing .  While they sat there his 
wife had reached forward and put her hand on Wilsons 
shoulder .  He turned and she had leaned forward over the 
low seat and kissed him on the mouth .  

Oh ,  I say ,  said Wilson ,  going redder than his natural 
baked colour .  

Mr .  Robert Wilson ,  she said .  The beautifully red - faced 
Mr .  Robert Wilson .  

Then she sat down beside Macomber again and looked 



HAPPY LIFE OF FRANCIS MACOMBER 27 

away across the stream to where the lion lay ,  with uplifted ,  
whitfc - muscled ,  tendon - marked naked forearms ,  and white 
bloating belly ,  as the black men fleshed away the skin .  
Finally the gun - bearers brought the skinover ,  wet and heavy ,  
and climbed in behind with it ,  rolling it up before they got 
in ,  and the motor car started .  No one had said anything 
more until they were back in camp .  

That was the story of the lion .  Macomber did not know 
how the lion had felt before he started his rush ,  nor during it 
when the unbelievable smash of the  . 505 with a muzzle 
velocity of two tons had hit him in the mouth ,  nor what kept 
him coming after that ,  when the second ripping crash had 
smashed his hind quarters and he had come crawling on 
toward the crashing ,  blasting thing that had destroyed him .  
Wilson knew something about it and only expressed it by 
saying / Damned fine lion ,  but Macomber did not know how 
Wilson felt about things either .  He did not know how his 
wife felt except that she was through with him .  

His wife had beerr through with him before but it never 
lasted .  He was very wealthy ,  and would be much wealthier ,  
and he knew she would not leave him ever now .  That was 
one of the few things that he really knew .  He knew about 
that ,  about motor cycles that was earliest about motor 
cars ,  about duck - shooting ,  about fishing ,  trout ,  salmon and 
big - sea ,  about sex in books ,  many books ,  too many books ,  
about all court games ,  about dogs ,  not much about horses ,  
about hanging on to his money ,  about most of the other 
things his world dealt in ,  and about his wife not leaving him .  
His wife had been a great beauty and she was still a great 
beauty in Africa ,  but she was not a great enough beauty any 
more at home to be able to leave him and better herself and 
she knew it and he knew it .  She had missed the chance to 
leave him and he knew it .  If he had been better with women 
she would probably have started to worry about him 
getting another new ,  beautiful wife ;  but she knew too 
much about him to worry about him either .  Also ,  he had 



28 HAPPY LIFE OF FRANCIS MACOMBER 

always had a great tolerance which seemed the nicest thing 
about him if it were not the most sinister .  * 

All in all they were known as a comparatively happily*mar -  
riecl couple ,  one of those whose disruption is often rumoured 
but never* occurs ,  and as the society columnist put it ,  they 
were adding more than a spice of adventure to their much 
envied and ever - enduring Romance by a Safari in what was 
known as* Darkest Africa until the Martin Johnsons lighted it 
on so many silver screens where they were pursuing Old 
Simba the lion ,  the buffalo ,  Tembo the elephant and as well 
collecting specimens for the Museum of Natural History .  
This same columnist had reported them on the verge at least 
three times in the past and they had been .  But they always 
made it up .  They had a sound basis of union .  Margot was 
too beautiful for Macomber to divorce her and Macomber 
had too much money for Margot ever to leave him .  

It was now about three oclock in the morning and Francis 
Macomber ,  who had been asleep a little while after he had 
stopped thinking about the lion ,  wakened and then slept 
again ,  woke suddenly ,  frightened in a dream of the bloody -  
headed lion standing over him ,  and listening while his heart 
pounded ,  he realized that his wife was not in the other cot 
in the tent .  He lay awake with that knowledge for two hours .  

At the end of that time his wife came into the tent ,  lifted 
her mosquito bar and crawled cozily into bed .  

Where have you been ?  3 Macomber asked in the darkness .  

Hello ,  she said .  Are you awake ?  

Where have you been ?  

I just went out to get a breath of air .  

You did ,  like hell .  

What do you want me to say ,  darling ?  

Where have you been ?  

Out to get a breath of air .  

Thats a new name for it .  You are a bitch .  

Well ,  youre a coward .  

All right /  he said .  What of it ?  



HAPPY LIFE OF FRANCIS MACOMBER 29 

Nothing as far as Im concerned .  But please lets not talk 
darling ,  because Im very sleepy .  

You think that Ill take anything .  

I know you will ,  sweet .  

Well ,  I wont .  

Please ,  darling ,  lets not talk .  Im so very sleepy .  

There wasnt going to be any of that .  You promised there 
wouldnt be .  

Well ,  there is now ,  she said sweetly .  

You said if we made this trip that there would be none 
of that .  You promised .  

Yes ,  darling .  Thats the way I meant it to be .  But the 
trip was spoiled yesterday .  We dont have to talk about it ,  
do we ?  

You dont wait long when you have an advantage ,  
do you ?  

Please lets not talk .  Im so sleepy ,  darling .  

Tm going to talk .  

Dont mind me then ,  because Im going to sleep .  And 
she did .  

At breakfast they were all three at the table before day -  
light and Francis Macomber found that ,  of all the many men 
that he had hated ,  he hated Robert Wilson the most .  

Sleep well ?  Wilson asked in his throaty voice ,  filling a pipe .  

Did you ?  

Topping ,  the white hunter told him .  

You bastard ,  thought Macomber ,  you insolent bastard .  

So she woke him when she came in ,  Wilson thought ,  look -  
ing at them both with his flat ,  cold eyes .  Well ,  why doesnt 
he keep his wife where she belongs ?  What does he think I 
am ,  a bloody plaster saint ?  Let him keep her where she 
belongs .  Its his own fault .  

Do you think well find buffalo ?  Margot asked ,  pushing 
away a dish of apricots .  

Chance of it ,  Wilson said and smiled at her .  Why dont 
you stay in camp ?  



30 HAPPY LIFE OF FRANCIS MACOMBER 

Not for anything ,  she told him .  

Why not order her to stay in camp ?  Wilson said to 
Macomber .  

iYou order her ,  said Macomber coldly .  

Lets not have any ordering ,  nor ,  turning to Macomber ,  
any silliness ,  Francis ,  Margot said quite pleasantly .  

Are you ready to start ?  Macomber asked .  

Any time ,  Wilson told him .  Do you want the Memsahib 
to go ?  

Does it make any difference whether I do or not ?  

The hell with it ,  thought Robert Wilson .  The utter com -  
plete hell with it .  So this is what its going to be like .  Well ,  
this is what its going to be like ,  then .  

Makes no difference ,  he said .  

Youre sure you wouldnt like to stay in camp with her 
yourself and let me go out and hunt the buffalo ?  Macomber 
asked .  

Cant do that ,  said Wilson .  Wouldnt talk rot if I were 
you .  

Tm not talking rot .  Im disgusted .  

Bad word ,  disgusted .  

Francis ,  will you please try to speak sensibly ?  his wife said .  

I speak too damned sensibly ,  Macomber said .  Did you 
ever eat such filthy food ?  

Something wrong with the food ?  asked Wilson quietly .  

No more than with everything else .  

Id pull yourself together ,  laddybuck /  Wilson said very 
quietly .  Theres a boy waits at table that understands a 
little English .  

The hell with him .  

Wilson stood up and puffing on his pipe strolled away ,  
speaking a few words in Swahili to one of the gun - bearers 
who was standing waiting for him .  Macomber and his wife 
sat on at the table .  He was staring at his coffee cup .  

If you make a scene Ill leave you ,  darling ,  Margot said 
quietly .  



HAPPY LIFE OF FRANCIS M A C O M B E R 31 

No ,  you wont .  

You can try it and see .  

You wont leave me .  

No /  she said .  C I wont leave you and youll behave 
yourself .  

Behave myself ?  Thats a way to talk .  Behave myself .  

Yes .  Behave yourself .  

Why dont you try behaving ?  

Ive tried it so long .  So very long .  

I hate that red - faced swine /  Macomber said .  I loathe the 
sight of him .  

Hes really very nice .  

Oh ,  shut up ?  Macomber almost shouted .  Just then the car 
came up and stopped in front of the dining tent and the 
driver and the two gun - bearers got out .  Wilson walked over 
and looked at the husband and wife sitting there at the table .  

Going shooting ?  he asked .  

Yes /  said Macomber ,  standing up .  Yes .  

Better bring a woolly .  It will be cool in the car /  Wilson 
said .  

Til get my leather jacket /  Margot said .  

The boy has it /  Wilson told her .  He climbed into the 
front with the driver and Francis Macomber and his wife 
sat ,  not speaking ,  in the back seat .  

Hope the silly beggar doesnt take a notion to blow the 
back of my head off ,  Wilson thought to himself .  Women are 
a nuisance on safari .  

The car was grinding down to cross the river at a pebbly 
ford in the grey daylight and then climbed ,  angling up the 
steep bank ,  where Wilson had ordered a way shovelled out 
the day before so they could reach the parklike wooded 
rolling country on the far side .  

It was a good morning ,  Wilson thought .  There was a 
heavy dew and as the wheels went through the grass and low 
bushes he could smell the odour of the crushed fronds .  It was 
an odour like verbena and he liked this early morning smell 



32 HAPPY LIFE OF FRANCIS MACOMBER 

of the dew ,  the crushed bracken and the look of the tree 
trunks showing black through the early morning mist ,  as t the 
car made its way through the untracked ,  parklike country .  
HeJhad put the two in the back seat out of his mind now and 
was thinking about buffalo .  The buffalo that he was after 
stayed in the daytime in a thick swamp where it was impos -  
sible to get a shot ,  but in the night they fed out into an open 
stretch of Country and if he could come between them and 
their swamp with the car ,  Macomber would have a good 
chance at them in the open .  He did not want to hunt buff 
with Macomber in thick cover .  He did not want to hunt buff 
or anything else with Macomber at all ,  but he was a pro -  
fessional hunter and he had hunted with some rare ones in his 
time .  If they got buff to - day there would only be rhino to 
come and the poor man would have gone through his dan -  
gerous game and things might pick up .  Hed have nothing 
more to do with the woman and Macomber would get over 
that too .  He must have gone through plenty of that before 
by the look of things .  Poor beggar .  He must have a way of 
getting over it .  Well ,  it was the poor sods own bloody fault .  

He ,  Robert Wilson ,  carried a double size cot on safari to 
accommodate any windfalls he might receive .  He had 
hunted for a certain clientele ,  the international ,  fast ,  sporting 
set ,  where the women did not feel they were getting their 
moneys worth unless they had shared that cot with the 
white hunter .  He despised them when he was away from 
them although he liked some of them well enough at the time ,  
but he made his living by them ;  and their standards were 
his standards as long as they were hiring him .  

They were his standards in all except the shooting .  He had 
his own standards about the killing and they could live up to 
them or get someone else to hunt them .  He knew ,  too ,  that 
they all respected him for this .  This Macomber was art odd 
one though .  Damned if he wasnt .  Now the wife .  Well ,  the 
wife .  Yes ,  the wife ,  Mm ,  the wife .  Well ,  hed dropped all 
that .  He looked around at them .  Macomber sat grim and 



HAPPY LIFE OF FRANCIS MACOMBER 33 

furious .  Margot smiled at him .  She looked younger to - day ,  
more innocent and fresher and not so professionally beau -  
tifuh Whats in her heart God knows ,  Wilson thought .  She 
hadnt talked much last night .  At that it was a pleasure to 
see her .  9 

The mottfr car climbed up a slight rise and went on 
through the trees and then out into a grassy prairie - like 
opening and kept in the shelter of the trees along the edge ,  
the driver going slowly and Wilson looking carefully out 
across the prairie and all along its far side .  He stopped the 
car and studied the opening with his field glasses .  Then he 
motioned to the driver to go on and the car moved slowly 
along ,  the driver avoiding wart - hog holes and driving 
around the mud castles ants had built .  Then ,  looking across 
the opening ,  Wilson suddenly turned and said : 

By God ,  there they are! 

And looking where he pointed ,  while the car jumped 
forward and Wilson spoke in rapid Swahili to the driver ,  
Macomber saw three huge ,  black animals looking almost 
cylindrical in their long heaviness ,  like big black tank cars ,  
moving at a gallop across the far edge of the open prairie .  
They moved at a stiff - necked ,  stiff - bodied gallop and he 
could see the upswept wide black horns on their heads as 
they galloped heads out ;  the heads not moving .  

Theyre three old bulls ,  Wilson said .  Well cut them off 
before they get to the swamp .  

 .  The car was going a wild forty - five miles an hour across the 
open ,  and as Macomber watched ,  the buffalo got bigger and 
bigger until he could see the grey ,  hairless ,  scabby look of one 
huge bull and how his neck was a part of his shoulders and 
the shiny black of his horns as he galloped a little behind the 
others that were strung out in that steady plunging gait ;  and 
then ,  the car swaying as though it had just jumped a road ,  
they drew up close and he could see the plunging hugeness of 
the bull ,  and the dust in his sparsely haired hide ,  the wide 
boss of horn and his outstretched ,  wide - nostrilled muzzle ,  



34 HAPPY LIFE OF FRANCIS MACOMBER 

and he was raising his rifle when Wilson shouted ,  Not from 
the car ,  you fool! and he had no fear ,  only hatred of Wilson ,  
while the brakes clamped on and the car skidded ,  ploughing 
sideways to an almost stop and Wilson was out on one side 
and he on the other ,  stumbling as his feet hit the still speeding -  
by of the earth ,  and then he was shooting at the bull as he 
moved away ,  hearing the bullets whunk into him ,  emptying 
his rifle at him as he moved steadily away ,  finally remem -  
bering to get his shots forward into the shoulder ,  and as he 
fumbled to re - load ,  he saw the bull was down .  Down on his 
knees ,  his big head tossing ,  and seeing the other two still 
galloping he shot at the leader and hit him .  He shot again 
and missed and he heard the carawonging roar as Wilson shot 
and saw the leading bull slide forward onto his nose .  
Get that other ,  Wilson said .  Now youre shooting! 
But the other bull was moving steadily at the same gallop 
and he missed ,  throwing a spout of dirt ,  and Wilson missed 
and the dust rose in a cloud and Wilson shouted ,  Gome on .  
Hes too far! and grabbed his arm and they were in the car 
again ,  Macomber and Wilson hanging on the sides and 
rocketing swayingly over the uneven ground ,  drawing up on 
the steady ,  plunging ,  heavy - necked ,  straight - moving gallop 
of the bull .  

They were behind him and Macomber was filling his rifle ,  
dropping shells onto the ground ,  jamming it ,  clearing the 
jam ,  then they were almost up with the bull when Wilson 
yelled Stop! 5 and the car skidded so that it almost swung 
over and Macomber fell forward onto his feet ,  slammed his 
bolt forward and fired as far forward as he could aim into 
the galloping ,  rounded black back ,  aimed and shot again ,  
then again ,  then again ,  and the bullets ,  all of them hitting ,  
had no effect on the buffalo that he could see .  Then Wilson 
shot ,  the roar deafening him ,  and he could see the bull 
stagger .  Macomber shot again ,  aiming carefully ,  and down 
he came ,  onto his knees .  

All right ,  5 Wilson said .  Nice work .  Thats the three .  



HAPPY LIFE OF FRANCIS MACOMBER 35 

Macomber felt a drunken elation .  

How many times did you shoot ?  he asked .  

Jhst three /  Wilson said .  You killed the first bull .  The 
biggest one .  I helped you finish the other two .  Afraid fhey 
might have got into cover .  You had them killed .  * I was just 
mopping upa little .  You shot damn well .  

Lets go to the car ,  said Macomber .  I want a drink .  

Got to finish off that buff first ,  Wilson told him .  The 
buffalo was on his knees and he jerked his head furiously and 
bellowed in pig - eyed ,  roaring rage as they came toward him ,  

Watch he doesnt get up ,  Wilson said .  Then ,  Get a little 
broadside and take him in the neck just behind the ear .  

Macomber aimed carefully at the centre of the huge ,  
jerking ,  rage - driven neck and shot .  At the shot the head 
dropped forward .  

That does it ,  said Wilson .  Got the spine .  Theyre a hell 
of a looking thing ,  arent they ?  

Lets get the drink ,  said Macomber .  In his life he had 
never felt so good .  

In the car Macombers wife sat very white faced .  You 
were marvellous ,  darling ,  she said to Macomber .  What a^ 
ride .  

Was it rough ?  Wilson asked .  

It was frightful .  Ive never been more frightened in my 
life .  

Lets all have a drink ,  Macomber said .  

By all means ,  said Wilson .  Give it to the Memsahib .  She 
drank the neat whisky from the flask and shuddered a little 
when she swallowed .  She handed the flask to Macomber who 
handed it to Wilson .  

It was frightfully exciting ,  she said .  Its given me a 
dreadful headache .  I didnt know you were allowed to 
shoot them from cars though .  3 

No one shot from cars ,  said Wilson coldly .  

I mean chase them from cars .  

Wouldnt ordinarily /  Wilson said .  Seemed sporting 



36 HAPPY LIFE OF FRANCIS MACOMBER 

enough to me though while we were doing it .  Taking more 
chance driving that way across the plain full of holes and one 
thing and another than hunting on foot .  Buffalo could have 
charged us each time we shot if he liked .  Gave him every 
chance .  Wouldnt mention it to anyone though .  Its illegal 
if thats what you mean .  5 

It seemed very unfair to me ,  Margot said ,  chasing those 
big helpless things in a motor car .  

Did it ?  said Wilson .  

What would happen if they heard about it in Nairobi ?  

Id lose my licence for one thing .  Other unpleasant -  
nesses ,  Wilson said ,  taking a drink from the flask .  Td be 
out of business .  

Really ?  

Yes ,  really .  

Well ,  said Macomber ,  and he smiled for the first time all 
day .  Now she has something on you .  

You have such a pretty way of putting things ,  Francis ,  
Margot Macomber said .  Wilson looked at them both .  If a 
four - letter man marries a five - letter woman ,  he was thinking ,  
what number of letters would their children be ?  What he 
said was We lost a gun - bearer .  Did you notice it ?  

My God ,  no /  Macomber said .  

Here he comes ,  Wilson said .  Hes all right .  He must 
have fallen off when we left the first bull .  

Approaching them was the middle - aged gun - bearer ,  limp -  
ing along in his knitted cap ,  khaki tunic ,  shorts and rubber 
sandals ,  gloomy - faced and disgusted looking .  As he came up 
he called out to Wilson in Swahili and they all saw the 
change in the white hunters face .  

What does he say ?  asked Margot .  

He says the first bull got up and went into the bush ,  
Wilson said with no expression in his voice .  

Oh /  said Macomber blankly .  

Then its going to be just like the lion ,  3 said Margot ,  full 
of anticipation .  



HAPPY LIFE OF FRANCIS MACOMBER 37 

Its not going to be a damned bitlike the lion ,  Wilson told 
her ,  ,  Did you want another drink ,  Macomber ?  

Thanks ,  yes ,  Macomber said .  He expected the feeling he 
had had about the lion to come back but it did not .  Forthe 
first time in his life he really felt wholly without feajr .  Instead 
of fear he had a feeling of definite elation .  

Well go and have a look at the second bull ,  Wilson said .  
Til tell the driver to put the car in the shade .  

What are you going to do ?  asked Margot Macomber .  

Take a look at the buff ,  Wilson said .  

Til come .  

Come along .  

The three of them walked over to where the second buffalo 
bulked blackly in the open ,  head forward on the grass ,  the 
massive horns swung wide .  

Hes a very good head ,  Wilson said .  Thats close to a 
fifty - inch spread .  

Macomber was looking at him with delight .  

Hes hateful looking ,  said Margot .  Cant we go into the 
shade ?  

Of course ,  Wilson said .  Look ,  he said to Macomber ,  and 
pointed .  See that patch of bush ?  

Yes .  

Thats where the first bull went in .  The gun - bearer said 
when he fell off the bull was down .  He was watching us 
helling along and the other two buff galloping .  When he 
looked up there was the bull up and looking at him .  Gun -  
bearer ran like hell and the bull went off slowly into that 
bush .  

Can we go in after him now ?  asked Macomber eagerly .  

Wilson looked at him appraisingly .  Damned if this isnt a 
strange one ,  he thought .  Yesterday hes scared sick and 
to - day hes a ruddy fire - eater .  

No ,  well give him a while .  

Lets please go into the shade ,  Margot said .  Her face was 
white and s}ie looked ill .  



38 HAPPY LIFE OF FRANCIS MACOMBER 

They made their way to the car where it stood under a 
single wide - spreading tree and all climbed in .   ,  

Chances are hes dead in there ,  5 Wilson remarked .  After 
a little well have a look .  5 

Macon \ ber felt a wild unreasonable happiness that he had 
never known before .  

By God ,  that was a chase /  he said .  Ive never felt any 
such feelirg .  Wasnt it marvellous ,  Margot ?  

I hated it .  3 

Why ?  

I hated it ,  she said bitterly .  I loathed it .  

You know ,  I dont think Id ever be afraid of anything 
again ,  5 Macomber said to Wilson .  Something happened in 
me after we first saw the buff and started after him .  Like a 
dam bursting .  It was pure excitement .  

Cleans out your liver ,  said Wilson .  Damn funny things 
happen to people .  

Macombers face was shining .  You know ,  something did 
happen to me ,  he said .  I feel absolutely different .  

His wife said nothing and eyed him strangely .  She was 
sitting far back in the seat and Macomber was sitting forward 
talking to Wilson who turned sideways talking over the back 
of the front seat .  

You know ,  Id like to try another lion ,  5 Macomber said .  
Im really not afraid of them now .  After all ,  what can they 
do to you ?  

Thats it ,  said Wilson .  Worst one can do is kill you .  How 
does it go ?  Shakespeare .  Damned good .  See if I can remem -  
ber .  Oh ,  damned good .  Used to quote it to myself at one 
time .  Lets see .   " By my troth ,  I cafe not ;  a man can die but 
once ;  we owe God a death ,  and let it go which way it will he 
that dies this year is quit for the next .  "  Damned fine ,  eh ?  

He was very embarrassed ,  having brought out this thing he 
had lived by ,  but he had seen men come of age before and it 
always moved him .  It was not a matter of their twenty - first 
birthday .  



HAPPY LIFE OF FRANCIS M A C O M B E R 39 

It had taken a strange chance of hunting ,  a sudden precipi -  
tation into action without opportunity for worrying before -  
hand ,  to bring this about with Macomber ,  but regardless of 
how it had happened it had most certainly happened .  Look at 
the beggar now ,  Wilson thought .  Its that some of them stay 
little boys soiong ,  Wilson thought .  Sometimes all their lives .  
Their figures stay boyish when theyre fifty .  The great 
American boy - men .  Damned strange people .  Bijt he liked 
this Macomber now .  Damned strange fellow .  Probably 
meant the end of cuckoldry too .  Well ,  that would be a 
damned good thing .  Damned good thing .  Beggar had 
probably been afraid all his life .  Dont know what started it .  
But over now .  Hadnt had time to be afraid with the buff .  
That and being angry too .  Motor car too .  Motor cars made 
it familiar .  Be a damn fire - eater now .  Hed seen it in the war 
work the same way .  More of a change than any loss of 
virginity .  Fear gone like an operation .  Something else 
grew in its place .  Main thing a man had .  Made him into 
a man .  Women knew it too .  No bloody fear .  

From the far corner of the seat Margaret Macomber 
looked at the two of them .  There was no change in Wilson .  
She saw Wilson as she had seen him the day before when she 
had first realized what his great talent was .  But she saw the 
change in Francis Macomber now .  

Do you have that feeling of happiness about whats going 
to happen ?  Macomber asked ,  still exploring his new wealth .  

Youre not supposed to mention it ,  Wilson said ,  looking 
in the others face .  Much more fashionable to say youre 
scared .  Mind you ,  youll be scared too ,  plenty of times .  

But you have a feeling of happiness about action to come ?  

Yes ,  said Wilson .  Theres that .  Doesnt do to talk too 
much about all this .  Talk the whole thing away .  No 
pleasure in anything if you mouth it up too much .  

Youre both talking rot ,  said Margot .  Just because 
youve chased some helpless animals in a motor car you talk 
like heroes .  



40 HAPPY LIFE OF FRANCIS MACOMBER 

Sorry /  said Wilson .  I have been gassing too much .  Shes 
worried about it already ,  he thought .  

If you dont know what were talking about ,  why not keep 
out of it ?  Macomber asked his wife .  

Youve 4 gotten awfully brave ,  awfully suddenly ,  his wife 
said contemptuously ,  but her contempt was not secure .  She 
was very afraid of something .  

Macomber laughed ,  a very natural hearty laugh .  You 
know I have ,  he said .  C I really have .  

Isnt it sort of late ?  Margot said bitterly .  Because she had 
done the best she could for many years back and the way 
they were together now was no one persons fault .  

Not for me ,  said Macomber .  

Margot said nothing but sat back in the corner of the 
seat .  

Do you think weve given him time enough ?  Macomber 
asked Wilson cheerfully .  

We might have a look ,  Wilson said .  Have you any solids 
left ?  

The gun - bearer has some .  

Wilson called in Swahili and the older gun - bearer ,  who 
was skinning out one of the heads ,  straightened up ,  pulled a 
box of solids out of his pocket and brought them over to 
Macomber ,  who filled his magazine and put the remaining 
shells in his pocket .  

You might as well shoot the Springfield ,  Wilson said .  
Youre used to it .  Well leave the Mannlicher in the car with 
the Memsahib .  Your gun - bearer can carry your heavy gun .  
Ive this damned cannon .  Now let me tell you about them .  
He had saved this until the last because he did not want to 
worry Macomber .  When a buff comes he comes with his 
head high and thrust straight out .  The boss of the horns 
covers any sort of brain shot .  The only shot is straight into 
the nose .  The only other shot is into his chest or ,  if youre to 
one side ,  into the neck or the shoulders .  After theyve been 
hit once they take a hell of a lot of killing .  Dont try any -  



HAPPY LIFE OF FRANCIS MACOMBER 41 

thing fancy .  Take the easiest shot there is .  Theyve finished 
skinning out that head now .  Should we get started ?  3 

Hu called to the gun - bearers ,  who came up wiping their 
hands ,  and the older one got into the back .  

Til only take Kongoni ,  5 Wilson said .  The other can watch 
to keep the birds away .  

As the car moved slowly across the open space toward the 
island of brushy trees that ran in a tongue of foliage along a 
dry watercourse that cut the open swale ,  Macomber felt his 
heart pounding and his mouth was dry again ,  but it was 
excitement ,  not fear .  

Heres where he went in /  Wilson said .  Then to the gun -  
bearer in Swahili ,  Take the blood spoor .  

The car was parallel to the patch of bush .  Macomber ,  
Wilson and the gun - bearer got down .  Macomber ,  looking 
back ,  saw his wife ,  with the rifle by her side ,  looking at him .  
He waved to her and she did not wave back .  

The brush was very thick ahead and the ground was dry .  
The middle - aged gun - bearer was sweating heavily and 
Wilson had his hat down over his eyes and his red neck 
showed just ahead of Macomber .  Suddenly the gun - bearer 
said something in Swahili to Wilson and ran forward .  

Hes dead in there ,  Wilson said .  Good work ,  and he 
turned to grip Macombers hand and as they shook hands ,  
grinning at each other ,  the gun - bearer shouted wildly and 
they saw him coming out of the bush sideways ,  fast as a crab ,  
and the bull coming ,  nose out ,  mouth tight closed ,  blood 
dripping ,  massive head straight out ,  coming in a charge ,  his 
little pig eyes bloodshot as he looked at them .  Wilson ,  who 
was ahead ,  was kneeling shooting ,  and Macomber ,  as he fired ,  
unhearing his shot in the roaring of Wilsons gun ,  saw frag -  
ments like slate burst from the huge boss of the horns ,  and the 
head jerked ;  he shot again at the wide nostrils and saw the 
horns jolt again and fragments fly ,  and he did not see Wilson 
now and ,  aiming carefully ,  shot again with the buffalos huge 
bulk almost on him and his rifle almost level with the on -  



42 HAPPY LIFE OF FRANCIS MACOMBER 

coming head ,  nose out ,  and he could see the little wicked 
eyes and the head started to lower ,  and he felt a sudden white -  
hot ,  blinding flash explode inside his head and that was all 
he ever felt .  

Wilson Jiad ducked to one side to get in a shoulder shot .  
Macomber had stood solid and shot for the nose ,  shooting a 
touch high each time and hitting the heavy horns ,  splintering 
and chippmg them like hitting a slate roof ,  and Mrs .  Macom -  
ber in the car ,  had shot at the buffalo with the 6 . 5 Mann -  
licher as it seemed about to gore Macomber and had hit her 
husband about two inches up and a little to one side of the 
base of his skull .  

Francis Macomber lay now ,  face down ,  not two yards from 
where the buffalo lay on his side and his wife knelt over him 
with Wilson beside her .  

I wouldnt turn him over ,  Wilson said .  
The woman was crying hysterically .  
Td get back in the car ,  Wilson said .  Wheres the rifle ?  
She shook her head ,  her face contorted .  The gun - bearer 
picked up the rifle ,  

Leave it as it is ,  said Wilson .  Then ,  Go get Abdulla so 
that he may witness the manner of the accident .  

He knelt down ,  took a handkerchief from his pocket ,  and 
spread it over Francis Macombers crew - cropped head where 
it lay .  The blood sank into the dry ,  loose earth .  

Wilson stood up and saw the buffalo on his side ,  his legs 
out ,  his thinly - haired belly crawling with ticks .  Hell of a 
good bull ,  his brain registered automatically .  C A good fifty 
inches ,  or better .  Better .  He called to the driver and told 
him to spread a blanket over the body and stay by it .  Then 
he walked over to the motor car where the woman sat crying 
in the corner .  

That was a pretty thing to do ,  he said in a toneless voice .  
He would have left you too .  
Stop it ,  she said .  
Of course its an accident ,  he said .  I know that .  



HAPPY LIFE OF FRANCIS MACOMBER 43 

Stop it ,  she said .  

Dont worry ,  he said .  There will be a certain amount of 
unpleasantness but I will have some photographs taken that 
will be very useful at the inquest .  Theres the testimony of the 
gun - bearers and the driver too .  Youre perfectly all right .  

Stop it ,  she said .  

Theres a hell of a lot to be done ,  he said .  And Ill have 
to send a truck off to the lake to wireless for a plane to take 
the three of us into Nairobi .  Why didnt you poison him ?  
Thats what they do in England .  

Stop it .  Stop it .  Stop it ,  the woman cried .  

Wilson looked at her with his flat blue eyes .  

Im through now ,  he said .  I was a little angry .  Id begun 
to like your husband .  

Oh ,  please stop it ,  she said .  Please ,  please stop it .  

Thats better ,  Wilson said .  Please is much better .  Now 
Ill stop .  



THE CAPITAL OF THE WORLD 

MADRID is full of boys named Paco ,  which is the diminfttive 
of the name Francisco ,  and there is a Madrid joke about a 
father who came to Madrid and inserted an advertisement in 
the personal columns of El Liberal which said: PAGO MEET ME 
AT HOTEL MONTANA NOON TUESDAY ALL is FORGIVEN PAPA ,  
and how g ,  squadron of Guardia Civil had to be called out to 
disperse the eight hundred young men who answered the 
advertisement .  But this Paco ,  who waited on table at the 
Pension Luarca ,  had no father to forgive him ,  nor anything 
for the father to forgive .  He had two older sisters who were 
chambermaids at the Luarca ,  who had gotten their place 
through coming from the same small village as a former 
Luarca chambermaid who had proven hardworking and 
honest and hence given her village and its products a good 
name ;  and these sisters had paid his way on the auto - bus to 
Madrid and gotten him his job as an apprentice waiter .  He 
came from a village in a part of Extremadura where con -  
ditions were incredibly primitive ,  food scarce ,  and comforts 
unknown ,  and he had worked hard ever since he could 
remember .  

He was a well built boy with very black ,  rather curly hair ,  
good teeth and a skin that his sisters envied ,  and he had a 
ready and unpuzzled smile .  He was fast on his feet and did 
his work well and he loved his sisters ,  who seemed beautiful 
and sophisticated ;  he loved Madrid ,  which was still an un -  
believable place ,  and he loved his work which ,  done under 
bright lights ,  with clean linen ,  the wearing of evening clothes ,  
and abundant food in the kitchen ,  seemed romantically 
beautiful .  

There were from eight to a dozen other people who lived at 
the Luarca and ate in the dining - room ,  but for Paco ,  the 
youngest of the three waiters who served at table ,  the only 
ones who really existed were the bull fighters .  

Second - rate matadors lived at that pension because the 

44 



THE CAPITAL OF THE WORLD 45 

address in the Calle San Jeronimo was good ,  the food was 
excellent and the room and board was cheap .  It is necessary 
for a bull fighter to give the appearance ,  if not of prosperity ,  
at least of respectability ,  since decorum and dignity rank 
above courage as the virtues most highly prized in Spain ,  and 
bull fighters  " stayed at the Luarca until their last pesetas were 
gone .  There is no record of any bull fighter having left the 
Luarca for a better or more expensive hotel ;  second - rate bull 
fighters never became first rate ;  but the descent from the 
Luarca was swift since anyone could stay there who was 
making anything at all and a bill was never presented to a 
guest unasked until the woman who ran the place knew that 
the case was hopeless .  

At this time there were three full matadors living at the 
Luarca as well as two very good picadors ,  and one excellent 
banderillero .  The Luarca was luxury for the picadors and 
the banderilleros who ,  with their families in Seville ,  required 
lodging in Madrid during the Spring season ;  but they were 
well paid and in the fixed employ of fighters who were 
heavily contracted during the coming season and the three 
of these subalterns would probably make much more apiece 
than any of the three matadors .  Of the three matadors one 
was ill and trying to conceal it ;  one had passed his short 
vogue as a novelty ;  and the third was a coward .  

The coward had at one time ,  until he had received a 
peculiar atrocious horn wound in the lower abdomen at the 
start of his first season as a full matador ,  been exceptionally 
brave and remarkably skilful and he still had many of the 
hearty mannerisms of his days of success .  He was jovial to 
excess and laughed constantly with and without provocation .  
He had ,  when successful ,  been very addicted to practical 
jokes ,  but he had given them up now .  They took an assur -  
ance that he did not feel .  This matador had an intelligent ,  
very open face and he carried himself with much style .  

The matador who was ill was careful never to show it and 
was meticulous about eating a little of all the dishes that were 



46 THE CAPITAL OF THE WORLD 

presented at the table .  He had a great many handkerchiefs 
which he laundered himself in his room and ,  lately ,  he had 
been selling his fighting suits .  He had sold one ,  chdaply ,  
before Christmas and another in the first week of April .  
They had been very expensive suits ,  had always been well 
kept and he had one more .  Before he had became ill he had 
been a very promising ,  even a sensational ,  fighter and ,  while 
he himself could not read ,  he had clippings which said that 
in his debut in Madrid he had been better than Belmonte .  
He ate alone at a small table and looked up very little .  

The matador who had once been a novelty was very short 
and brown and very dignified .  He also ate alone at a separate 
table and he smiled very rarely and never laughed .  He came 
from Valladolid ,  where the people are extremely serious ,  and 
he was a capable matador ;  but his style had become old -  
fashioned before he had ever succeeded in endearing himself 
to the public through his virtues ,  which were courage and a 
calm capability ,  and his name on a poster would draw no 
one to a bull ring .  His novelty had been that he was so 
short that he could barely see over the bulls withers ,  but 
there were other short fighters ,  and he had never succeeded 
in imposing himself on the publics fancy .  

Of the picadors one was a thin ,  hawk - faced ,  grey - haired 
man ,  lightly built but with legs and arms like iron ,  who 
always wore cattlemens boots under his trousers ,  drank too 
much every evening and gazed amorously at any woman in 
the pension .  The other was huge ,  dark ,  brown - faced ,  good -  
looking ,  with black hair like an Indian and enormous hands .  
Both were great picadors although the first was reputed to 
have lost much of his ability ^through drink and dissipation ,  
and the second was said to be too headstrong and quarrel -  
some to stay with any matador more than a single season .  

The banderillero was middle - aged ,  grey ,  cat - quick in spite 
of his years and ,  sitting at the table he looked a moderately 
prosperous business man .  His legs were still good for this 
season ,  and when they should go he was intelligent and 



THE CAPITAL OF THE WORLD 47 

experienced enough to keep regularly employed for a long 
time .  The difference would be that when his speed of foot 
wouM be gone he would always be frightened where now 
he was assured and calm in the ring and out of it .   ,  

On this evening every one had left the dining - room except 
the hawk - faeed picador who drank too much ,  the birth -  
marked - faced auctioneer of watches at the fairs and festivals 
of Spain ,  who also drank too much ,  and two priests from 
Galicia who were sitting at a corner table and drinking if 
not too much certainly enough .  At that time wine was 
included in the price of the room and board at the Luarca ,  
and the waiters had just brought fresh bottles of Valdcpefias 
to the tables of the auctioneer ,  then to the picador and ,  
finally ,  to the two priests .  

The three waiters stood at the end of the room .  It was the 
rule of the house that they should all remain on duty until the 
diners whose tables they were responsible for should all have 
left ,  but the one who served the table of the two priests had an 
appointment to go to an Anarcho - Syndicalist meeting and 
Paco had agreed to take over his table for him .  

Upstairs the matador who was ill was lying face down on 
his bed alone .  The matador who was no longer a novelty 
was sitting looking out of his window preparatory to walking 
out to the cafe .  The matador who was a coward had the 
older sister of Paco in his room with him and was trying to 
get her to do something which she was laughingly refusing 
to do .  This matador was saying Gome on ,  little savage .  

No ,  said the sister .  Why should I ?  

Tor a favour .  

Youve eaten and now you want me for dessert .  

Just once .  What harm can it do ?  

Leave me alone .  Leave me alone ,  I tell you .  

It is a very little thing to do .  

Leave me alone ,  I tell you .  

Down in the dining - room the tallest of the waiters ,  who was 
overdue at the meeting ,  said ,  Look at those black pigs drink .  



48 THE CAPITAL OF THE WORLD 

Thats no way to speak /  said the second waiter .  They 
are decent clients .  They do not drink too much .  

Tor me it is a good way to speak ,  said the tall one .  There 
arc the two curses of Spain ,  the bulls and the priests .  

Certainly not the individual bull and the individual 
priest ,  said the second waiter .  * 

Yes ,  said the tall waiter .  Only through the individual 
can you attack the class .  It is necessary to kill the individual 
bull and the individual priest .  All of them .  Then there are 
no more .  

Save it for the meeting ,  said the other waiter .  

Look at the barbarity of Madrid ,  said the tall waiter .  It 
is now half - past eleven oclock and these are still guzzling .  3 

They only started to eat at ten ,  said the other waiter .  As 
you know there are many dishes .  That wine is cheap and 
these have paid for it .  It is not a strong wine .  

How can there be solidarity of workers with fools like you ?  
asked the tall waiter .  

Look ,  said the second waiter who was a man of fifty .  I 
have worked all my life .  In all that remains of my life I must 
work .  I have no complaints against work .  To work is normal .  

Yes ,  but the lack of work kills .  

I have always worked ,  said the older waiter .  Go on to 
the meeting .  There is no necessity to stay .  

You are a good comrade ,  said the tall waiter .  But you 
lack all ideology .  

Mejor si me falta eso que el otroj said the older waiter 
 ( meaning it is better to lack that than work )  .  Go on to the 
mitin .  

Paco had said nothing .  He did not yet understand politics 
but it always gave him a thrill to hear the tall waiter speak of 
the necessity for killing the priests and the Guardia Civil .  
The tall waiter represented to him revolution and revolution 
also was romantic .  He himself would like to be a good 
catholic ,  a revolutionary ,  and have a steady job like this ,  
while ,  at the same time ,  being a bull fighter .  



THE CAPITAL OF T FIE WORLD 49 

Go on to the meeting ,  Ignacio /  he said .  I will respond for 
younwork .  

Tne two of us /  said the older waiter .  

There isnt enough for one /  said Paco .  Go on to tfie 
meeting .  

Pues ,  me voy ,  said the tall waiter .  And thanks .  

In the meantime ,  upstairs ,  the sister of Paco had gotten out 
of the embrace of the matador as skilfully as a wrestler 
breaking a hold and said ,  now angry ,  These are the hungry 
people .  A failed bull fighter .  With your ton - load of fear .  If 
you have so much of that ,  use it in the ring .  

That is the way a whore talks .  

A whore is also a woman ,  but I am not a whore .  

Youll be one .  

Not through you .  

Leave me ,  said the matador who ,  now ,  repulsed and 
refused ,  felt the nakedness of his cowardice returning .  

Leave you ?  What hasnt left you ?  said the sister .  Dont 
you want me to make up the bed ?  Im paid to do that .  

Leave me ,  said the matador ,  his broad good - looking face 
wrinkled into a contortion that was like crying .  You whore .  
You dirty little whore .  

Matador ,  she said ,  shutting the door .  My matador .  

Inside the room the matador sat on the bed .  His face still 
had the contortion which ,  in the ring ,  he made into a 
constant smile which frightened those people in the first 
rows of seats who knew what they were watching .  And this /  
he was saying aloud .  And this .  And this .  

He could remember when he had been good and it had 
only been three years before .  He could remember the weight 
of the heavy gold - brocaded fighting jacket on his shoulders 
on that hot afternoon in May when his voice had still been 
the same in the ring as in the cafe ,  and how he sighted along 
the point - dipping blade at the place in the top of the 
shoulders where it was dusty in the short - haired black hump 
of muscle above the wide ,  wood - knocking ,  splintered - tipped 



50 THE CAPITAL OF THE WORLD 

horns that lowered as he went in to kill ,  and how the sword 
pushed in as easy as into a mound of stiff butter with the palm 
of his hand pushing the pommel ,  his left arm crossed low ,  his 
left shoulder forward ,  his weight on his left leg ,  and then his 
weight wasnt on his leg .  His weight was on his lower belly 
and as the bull raised his head the horn wa$ out of sight 
in him and he swung over on it twice before they pulled 
him off it .  So now when he went in to kill ,  and it was 
seldom ,  he could not look at the horns and what did 
any whore know about what he went through before he 
fought ?  And what had they been through that laughed 
at him ?  They were all whores and they knew what they 
could do with it .  

Down in the dining - room the picador sat looking at the 
priests .  If there were women in the room he stared at them .  
If there were no women he would stare with enjoyment at a 
foreigner ,  un ingles ,  but lacking women or strangers ,  he now 
stared with enjoyment and insolence at the two priests .  
While he stared the birth - marked auctioneer rose and folding 
his napkin went out ,  leaving over half the wine in the last 
bottle he had ordered .  If his accounts had been paid up at 
the Luarca he would have finished the bottle .  

The two priests did not stare back at the picador .  One of 
them was saying / It is ten days since I have been here waiting 
to see him and all day I sit in the ante - chamber and he will 
not receive me .  

What is there to do ?  

Nothing .  What can one do ?  One cannot go against 
authority .  5 

I have been here for two weeks and nothing .  I wait and 
they will not see me .  

We are from the abandoned country .  When the money 
runs out we can return .  

To the abandoned country .  What does Madrid care 
about Galicia ?  We are a poor province .  

 ;  One understands the action of our brother Basilio .  



THE CAPITAL OF THE WORLD 51 

* Still I have no real confidence in the integrity of Basilio 
Alvarez .  

Madrid is where one learns to understand .  Madrid kills 
Spain .  

If they would simply see one and refuse .  

No .  You ftiust be broken and worn out by waiting .  

Well ,  we shall see .  I can wait as well as another .  

At this moment the picador got to his feet ,  walked over to 
the priests table and stood ,  grey - headed and hawk - faced ,  
staring at them and smiling .  

A torero ,  said one priest to the other .  

And a good one ,  said the picador and walked out of the 
dining - room ,  grey - jacketed ,  trim - waistcd ,  bow - legged ,  in 
tight breeches over his high - heeled cattlemans boots that 
clicked on the floor as he swaggered quite steadily ,  smiling to 
himself .  He lived in a small ,  tight ,  professional world of 
personal efficiency ,  nightly alcoholic triumph ,  and insolence .  
Now he lit a cigar and tilting his hat at an angle in the 
hallway went out to the cafe .  

The priests left immediately after the picador ,  hurriedly 
conscious of being the last people in the dining - room ,  and 
there was no one in the room now but Paco and the middle -  
aged waiter .  They cleared the tables and carried the 
bottles into the kitchen .  

In the kitchen was the boy who washed the dishes .  He was 
three years older than Paco and was very cynical and bitter .  

Take this ,  the middle - aged waiter said ,  and poured out 
a glass of the Valdepefias and handed it to him .  

Why not ?  the boy took the glass .  

Tu ,  Paco ?  the older waiter asked .  

Thank you ,  said Paco .  The three of them drank .  

I will be going ,  said the middle - aged waiter .  

Good night ,  they told him .  

He went out and they were alone .  Paco took a napkin one 
of the priests had used and standing straight ,  his heels 
planted ,  lowered the napkin and with head following the 



52 THE CAPITAL OF THE WORLD 

movement ,  swung his arms in the motion of a slow sweeping 
veronica .  He turned and advancing his right foot slightly ,  
made the second pass ,  gained a little terrain on the imaginary 
bull and made a third pass ,  slow ,  perfectly timed and suave ,  
then gathered the napkin to his waist and swung his hips 
away from the bull in a media - veronica .  

The dishwasher ,  whose name was Enrique ,  watched him 
critically and snecringly .  

How is the bull ?  he said .  

Very brave /  said Paco .  Look .  

Standing slim and straight he made four more perfect 
passes ,  smooth ,  elegant and graceful .  

And the bull ?  asked Enrique standing against the sink ,  
holding his wine glass and wearing his apron .  

Still has lots of gas ,  said Paco .  

You make me sick ,  5 said Enrique .  

Why ?  

Look .  

Enrique removed his apron and citing the imaginary bull 
he sculptured four perfect ,  languid gypsy veronicas and 
ended up with a rebolera that made the apron swing in a 
stiff arc past the bulls nose as he walked away from him .  

Look at that /  he said .  And I wash dishes .  

Why ?  

Fear ,  said Enrique .  Miedo .  The same fear you would 
have in a ring with a bull .  

No ,  said Paco .  I wouldnt be afraid .  

LecheT said Enrique .  Everyone is afraid .  But a torero 
can control his fear so that he can work the bull .  I went in 
an amateur fight and I was so afraid I couldnt keep from 
running .  Every one thought it was very funny .  So would 
you be afraid .  If it wasnt for fear every bootblack in Spain 
would be a bull fighter .  You ,  a country boy ,  would be 
frightened worse than I was .  

No ,  5 said Paco .  

He had done it too many times in his imagination .  Too 



THE CAPITAL OF THE WORLD 53 

many times he had seen the horns ,  seen the bulls wet muzzle ,  
the ear twitching ,  then the head go down and the charge ,  the 
hoofs  \ hudding and the hot bull pass him as he swung the 
cape ,  to re - charge as he swung the cape again ,  then agaiy ,  
and again ,  and again ,  to end winding the bull around him 
in his great media -  veronica ,  and walk swingingly away ,  with 
bull hairs caught in the gold ornaments of his jacket from 
the close passes ;  the bull standing hypnotized and tlje crowd 
applauding .  No ,  he would not be afraid .  Others ,  yes .  Not 
he .  He knew he would not be afraid .  Even if he ever was 
afraid he knew that he could do it anyway .  He had con -  
fidence .  I wouldnt be afraid ,  he said .  
Enrique said ,  Leche* again .  
Then he said ,  If we should try it ?  
How ?  

Look ,  said Enrique .  You think of the bull but you do 
not think of the horns .  The bull has such force that the 
horns rip like a knife ,  they stab like a bayonet ,  and they kill 
like a club .  Look ,  he opened a table drawer and took out 
two meat knives .  I will bind these to the legs of a chair .  
Then I will play bull for you with the chair held before my 
head .  The knives are the horns .  If you make those passes 
then they mean something .  

Lend me your apron ,  said Paco .  Well do it in the 
dining - room .  

No ,  said Enrique ,  suddenly not bitter .  Dont do it ,  
Paco .  

Yes ,  said Paco .  Im not afraid .  
You will be when you see the knives come .  
Well see ,  3 said Paco .  Give me the apron .  
At this time ,  while Enrique was binding the two heavy -  
bladed razor - sharp meat knives fast to the legs of the chair 
with two soiled napkins holding the half of each knife ,  wrap -  
ping them tight and then knotting them ,  the two chamber -  
maids ,  Pacos sisters ,  were on their way to the cinema to see 
Greta Garbo in c Anna Christie .  Of the two priests ,  one was 



54 THE CAPITAL OF THE WORLD 

sitting in his underwear reading his breviary and the other 
was wearing a nightshirt and saying the rosary .  All the 
bull fighters except the one who was ill had made -  their 
eyening appearance at the Cafe Fornos ,  where the big ,  
dark - haired picador was playing billiards ,  the short ,  serious 
matador was sitting at a crowded table before a coffee and 
milk ,  along with the middle - aged banderillero and other 
serious workmen .  

The drinking ,  grey - headed picador was sitting with a glass 
of cazalas brandy before him staring with pleasure at a 
table where the matador whose courage was gone sat with 
another matador who had renounced the sword to become a 
banderillero again ,  and two very houseworn - looking 
prostitutes .  

The auctioneer stood on the street corner talking with 
friends .  The tall waiter was at the Anarcho - Syndicalist 
meeting waiting for an opportunity to speak .  The middle -  
aged waiter was seated on the terrace of the Cafe Alvarez 
drinking a small beer .  The woman who owned the Luarca 
was already asleep in her bed ,  where she lay on her back 
with the bolster between her legs ;  big ,  fat ,  honest ,  clean ,  
easy - going ,  very religious and never having ceased to miss or 
pray daily for her husband ,  dead ,  now ,  twenty years .  In 
his room ,  alone ,  the matador who was ill lay face down on 
his bed with his mouth against a handkerchief .  

Now ,  in the deserted dining - room ,  Enrique tied the last 
knot in the napkins that bound the knives to the chair legs 
and lifted the chair .  He pointed the legs with the knives on 
them forward and held the chair over his head with the 
two knives pointing straight ahead ,  one on each side of his 
head .  

Its heavy ,  5 he said .  Look ,  Paco .  It is very dangerous .  
Dont do it .  He was sweating .  

Paco stood facing him ,  holding the apron spread ,  holding 
a fold of it bunched in each hand ,  thumbs up ,  first finger 
down ,  spread to catch the eye of the bull .  



THE LD 55 

Charge straight /  he said .  Turn like a Dull .  Charge as 
many times as you want /  

H \  ) w will you know when to cut the pass ?  asked Enrique .  
Its better to do three and then a media .  

All right /  said Paco .  But come straight .  Huh ,  torito! 
Come on ,  littje bull! 

Running with head down Enrique came toward him and 
Paco swung the apron just ahead of the knife blade as it passed 
close in front of his belly and as it went by it was ,  to him ,  the 
real horn ,  white - tipped ,  black ,  smooth ,  and as Enrique 
passed him and turned to rush again it was the hot ,  blood -  
flanked mass of the bull that thudded by ,  then turned like 
a cat and came again as he swung the cape slowly .  Then the 
bull turned and came again and ,  as he watched the onrushing 
point ,  he stepped his left foot two inches too far forward 
and the knife did not pass ,  but had slipped in as easily as 
into a wineskin and there was a hot scalding rush above and 
around the sudden inner rigidity of steel and Enrique 
shouting .  Ay! Ay! Let me get it out! Let me get it out! 
and Paco slipped forward on the chair the apron cape still 
held ,  Enrique pulling QR the chair as thejknife turned in 
him ,  in him ,  Paco .  

The knife was out no \ V and he sat on the floor in tne widen -  
ing warm pool .  

Put the napkin over it .  Hold it! said Enrique .  Hold it 
tight .  I will run for the doctor .  You must hold in the 
haemorrhage .  

There should be a rubber cup ,  said Paco .  He had seen 
that used in the ring .  

I came straight ,  said Enrique ,  crying .  All I wanted was 
to show the danger .  

Dont worry ,  said Paco ,  his voice sounding far away .  
But bring the doctor .  

In the ring they lifted you and carried you ,  running with 
you ,  to the operating room .  If the femoral artery emptied 
itself before you reached there they called the priest .  



5 6 TH .  

Advise one of the priests ,  said Paco ,  holding the napkin 
tight against his lower abdomen .  He could not believe that 
this had happened to him .  

Put Enrique was running down the Carrera San Jeromino 
to the all - night first - aid station and Paco was alone ,  first 
sitting up ,  then huddled over ,  then slumped en the floor ,  
until it was over ,  feeling his life go out of him as dirty water 
empties from a bathtub when the plug is drawn .  He was 
frightened and he felt faint and he tried to say an act of 
contrition and he remembered how it started but before he 
had said ,  as fast as he could ,  Oh ,  my God ,  I am heartily 
sorry for having offended Thee who art worthy of all my 
love and I firmly resolve  .   .   .  he felt too faint and he was 
lying face down on the floor and it was over very quickly .  
A severed femoral artery empties itself faster than you can 
believe .  

As the doctor from the first - aid station came up the stairs 
accompanied by a policeman who held on to Enrique by the 
arm ,  the two sisters of Paco were still in the moving - picture 
palace of the Gran Via ,  where they were intensely dis -  
appointed in the Garbo film ,  which showed the great star in 
miserable low surroundings when they had been accustomed 
to see her surrounded by great luxury and brilliance .  The 
audience disliked the film thoroughly and were protesting 
by whistling and stamping their feet .  All the other people 
from the hotel were doing almost what they had been doing 
when the accident happened ,  except that the two priests 
had finished their devotions and were preparing for sleep ,  
and the grey - haired picador had moved his drink over to 
the table with the two houseworn prostitutes .  A little later 
he went out of the cafe with one of them .  It was the one for 
whom the matador who had lost his nerve had been buying 
drinks .  

The boy Paco had never known about any of this nor 
about what all these people would be doing on the next day 
and on other days to come .  He had no idea how they really 



THE CAPITAL OF THE WORLD 57 

lived nor how they ended .  He did not even realize they 
ended .  He died ,  as the Spanish phrase has it ,  full of illu -  
sions^ 1 He had not had time in his life to lose any of them ,  
nor even ,  at the end ,  to complete an act of contrition .  

He had not even had time to be disappointed in tjie Garbo 
picture which disappointed all Madrid for a week .  



Kilimanjaro is a snow covered mountain igjiofeet high ,  and is said 
to be the highest mountain in Africa .  Its western summit is called 
the Masai Ngqje Ngai \  the House of God .  Close to the western 
summit there is the dried and frozen carcass of a leopard .  Mo one 
has explained what the leopard was seeking at that altitude .  



THE SNOWS OF KILIMANJARO 

THE marvellous thing is that its painless /  he said .  Thats 
how you know when it starts .  

Is it really ?  

Absolutely .  Im awfully sorry about the odour ,  though .  
That must bother you .  

Dont! Please dont .  

Look at them /  he said .  Now is it sight or is it scent that 
brings them like that ?  

The cot the man lay on was in the wide shade of a mimosa 
tree and as he looked out past the shade on to the glare of the 
plain there were three of the big birds squatted obscenely ,  
while in the sky a dozen more sailed ,  making quick - moving 
shadows as they passed .  

Theyve been there since the day the truck broke down /  
he said .  To - days the first time any have lit on the ground .  
I watched the way they sailed very carefully at first in case 
I ever wanted to use them in a story .  Thats funny now .  

I wish you wouldnt /  she said .  

Im only talking /  he said .  Its much easier if I talk .  But 
I dont want to bother you .  

You know it doesnt bother me /  she said .  Its that Ive 
gotten so very nervous not being able to do anything .  I 
think we might make it as easy as we can until the plane 
comes .  

Or until the plane doesnt come .  

Please tell me what I can do .  There must be something 
I can do /  

58 



THE SNOWS OF KILIMANJARO 59 .  

You can take the leg off and that might stop it ,  though I 
doubt it .  Or you can shoot me .  Youre a good shot now .  
I taftght you to shoot ,  didnt I ?  

Please dont talk that way .  Couldnt I read to you ?  

Read what ?  3 

Anythingin the book bag that we havent read .  

I cant listen to it ,  he said .  Talking is the easiest .  We 
quarrel and that makes the time pass .  5 

I dont quarrel .  I never want to quarrel .  Lets not 
quarrel any more .  No matter how nervous we get .  Maybe 
they will be back with another truck to - day .  Maybe the 
plane will come .  

I dont want to move ,  the man said .  There is no sense in 
moving now except to make it easier for you .  5 

Thats cowardly .  

Cant you let a man die as comfortably as he can without 
calling him names ?  Whats the use of slanging me ?  

Youre not going to die .  5 

Dont be silly .  Im dying now .  Ask those bastards .  He 
looked over to where the huge ,  filthy birds sat ,  their naked 
heads sunk in the hunched feathers .  A fourth planed down 
to run quick - legged and then waddle slowly toward the 
others .  

They are around every camp .  You never notice them .  
You cant die if you dont give up .  

Where did you read that ?  Youre such a bloody fool .  5 

You might think about someone else .  

For Christs sake ,  5 he said .  Thats been my trade .  5 

He lay then and was quiet for a while and looked across 
the heat shimmer of the plain to the edge of the bush .  There 
were a few Tommies that showed minute and white against 
the yellow and ,  far off ,  he saw a herd of zebra ,  white against 
the green of the bush .  This was a pleasant camp under big 
trees against a hill ,  with good water ,  and close by ,  a nearly 
dry water hole where sand grouse flighted in the mornings .  

Wouldnt you like me to read ?  5 she asked .  She was sitting 



60 THE SNOWS OF KILIMANJARO 

on a canvas chair beside his cot .  Theres a breeze coming 
up /  

No thanks .  

Maybe the truck will come .  

I dont give a damn about the truck .  

I do .  5 

You give a damn about so many things that I dc^+  

Not so many ,  Harry .  

What about a drink ?  

Its supposed to be bad for you .  It said in Blacks to 
 . avoid all alcohol .  You shouldnt drink .  

Molo! he shouted .  

Yes ,  Bwana .  

Bring whisky - soda .  

Yes ,  Bwana .  

You shouldnt ,  she said .  Thats what I mean by giving 
up .  It says its bad for you .  I know its bad for you .  

No ,  he said .  Its good for me .  

So now it was all over ,  he thought .  So now he would 
never have a chance to finish it .  So this was the way it ended 
in a bickering over a drink .  Since the gangrene started in 
his right leg he had no pain and with the pain the horror 
had gone and all he felt now was a great tiredness and anger 
that this was the end of it .  For this ,  that now was coming ,  he 
had very little curiosity .  For years it had obsessed him ;  
but now it meant nothing in itself .  It was strange how easy 
being tired enough made it .  

Now he would never write the things that he had saved to 
write until he knew enough to write them well .  Well ,  he 
would not have to fail at trying to write them either .  Maybe 
you could never write them ,  and that was why you put them 
off and delayed the starting .  Well ,  he would never know ,  
now .  

I wish wed never come ,  the woman said .  She was 
looking at him holding the glass and biting her lip .  You 
never would have gotten anything like this in Paris .  You 



THE SNOWS OF KILIMANJARO 61 

always said you loved Paris .  We could have stayed in Paris 
or gone anywhere .  Id have gone anywhere .  I said Id 
go anywhere you wanted .  If you wanted to shoot we could 
have gone shooting in Hungary and been comfortable .  

Your bloody money ,  he said .  

Thats noffair ,  she said .  It was always yours as much as 
mine .  I left everything and I went wherever you wanted to 
go and Ive done what you wanted to do .  But I wish wed 
never come here .  

You said you loved it .  

I did when you were all right .  But now I hate it .  I dont 
see why that had to happen to your leg .  What have we done 
to have that happen to us ?  

I suppose what I did was to forget to put iodine on it 
when I first scratched it .  Then I didnt pay any attention to 
it because I never infect .  Then ,  later ,  when it got bad ,  it was 
probably using that weak carbolic solution when the other 
antiseptics ran out that paralysed the minute blood vessels 
and started the gangrene .  He looked at her ,  What else ?  

I dont mean that .  

If we could have hired a good mechanic instead of a half -  
baked kikuyu driver ,  he would have checked the oil and 
never burned out that bearing in the truck .  

I dont mean that .  

If you hadnt left your own people ,  your goddamned Old 
Westbury ,  Saratoga ,  Palm Beach people to take me on -  .  

Why ,  I loved you .  Thats not fair .  I love you now .  Ill 
always love you .  Dont you love me ?  

No ,  said the man .  I dont think so .  I never have .  

Harry ,  what are you saying ?  Youre out of your head .  

No .  I havent any head to go out of .  

Dont drink that ,  she said .  Darling ,  please dont drink 
that .  We have to do everything we can .  

You do it ,  he said .  Im tired .  

Mow in his mind he saw a railway station at Karagatch and he 



62 THE SNOWS OF KILIMANJARO 

was standing with his pack and that was the headlight of the 
Simplon -  Orient cutting the dark now and he was leaving Thrace then 
after the retreat .  That was one of the things he had saved to write .  ,  
wtth ,  in the morning at breakfast  ,  looking out the window and seeing 
snow on the mountains in Bulgaria and Nanseris Secretary asking 
the old man if it were snow and the old man looking dt it and saying ,  
JV0 ,  thafs not snow .  Ifs too early for snow .  And the Secretary 
repeating to the other girls ,  No ,  you see .  Ifs not snow and them all 
saying ,  Ifs not snow ,  we were mistaken .  But it was the snow all 
right and he sent them on into it when he evolved exchange of popula -  
tions .  And it was snow they tramped along in until they died that 
winter .  

It was snow too that fell all Christmas week that year up in the 
Gauertal ,  that year they lived in the woodcutters house with the big 
square porcelain stove that filled half the room ,  and they slept on 
mattresses filled with beech leaves ,  the time the deserter came with his 
feet bloody in the snow .  He said the police were right behind him and 
they gave him woollen socks and held the gendarmes talking until the 
tracks had drifted over .  

In Schrunz ,  on Christmas day ,  the snow was so bright it hurt 
your eyes when you looked out from the weinstube and saw everyone 
coming home from church .  That was where they walked up the 
sleigh - smoothed urine - yellowed road along the river with the steep 
pine hills ,  skis heavy on the shoulder ,  and where they ran that great 
run down the glacier above the Madlener - fyaus y the snow as smooth 
to see as cake frosting and as light as pdiwfev^nd he remembered 
the noiseless rush the speed made as you dropped dbwn like a bird .  

They were snow - bound a week in the Madlener - haus that time in 
the blizzard playing cards in the smoke by the lantern light and the 
stakes were higher all the time as Hen Lent lost more .  Finally he 
lost it all .  Everything ,  the skischule money and all the seasons 
profit and then his capital .  He could see him with his long nose ,  
picking up the cards and then opening ,  Sans Voir \  There was always 
gambling then .  When there was no snow you gambled and when there 
was too much you gambled .  He thought of all the time in his life he 
had spent gambling .  



THE SNOWS OF KILIMANJARO 63 

But he had never written a line of that ,  nor of that cold ,  bright 
Christmas day with the mountains showing across the plain that 
Johnson had flown across the lines to bomb the Austrian officers leave 
train ,  machine - gunning them as they scattered and ran .  He rerr&m -  
bered Johnson afterwards coming into the mess and starting to tell 
about it .  Arid how quiet it got and then somebody saying ,  You 
bloody murderous bastard! 

Those were the same Austrians they killed then that he skied with 
later .  No ,  not the same .  Hans ,  that he skied with all that year ,  had 
been in the Kaiser - Jdgers and when they went hunting hares together 
up the little valley above the saw - mill they had talked of the fighting 
on Pasubio and of the attack on Pertica and Asalone and he had 
never written a word of that .  Nor of Monte Corno ,  nor the Siete 
Commum ,  nor of Arsiedo .  

How many winters had he lived in the Voralberg and the Arlberg ?  
It was four and then he remembered the man who had the fox to sell 
when they had walked into Bludenz ,  that time to buy presents ,  and 
the cherry pip taste of good kirsch ,  the fast - slipping rush of running 
powder - snow on crust ,  singing Hi! Ho! said Roily T as you ran 
down the last stretch to the steel drop ,  taking it straight ,  then running 
the orchard in three turns and out across the ditch and on to the icy 
road behind the inn .  Knocking your bindings loose ,  kicking the skis 
free and leaning them up against the wooden wall of the inn ,  the 
lamplight coming from the window ,  where inside ,  in the smoky ,  
new - wine smelling warmth ,  they were playing the accordion .  

Where did we stay in Paris ?  3 he asked the woman who was 
sitting by him in a canvas chair ,  now ,  in Africa .  

At the Crillon .  You know that .  

Why do I know that ?  

Thats where we always stayed .  

No .  Not always .  

There and at the Pavilion Henri - Quatre in St .  Germain .  
You said you loved it there .  

Love is a dunghill /  said Harry .  And Im the cock that 
gets on it to crow .  



64 THE SNOWS OF KILIMANJARO 

If you have to go away /  she said ,  is it absolutely necessary 
to kill off everything you leave behind ?  I mean do you have 
to take away everything ?  Do you have to kill your horse ,  
aiYd your wife and burn your saddle and your armour ?  5 

Yes /  be said .  Your damned money was my armour .  My 
Swift and my Armour .  

Dont .  

All right .  Ill stop that .  I dont want to hurt you .  

Its a little bit late now .  

All right then .  Ill go on hurting you .  Its more amusing .  
The only thing I ever really liked to do with you I cant do 
now .  

No ,  thats not true .  You liked to do many things and 
everything you wanted to do I did .  

Oh ,  for Christ sake stop bragging ,  will you ?  

He looked at her and saw her crying .  

Listen ,  he said .  Do you think that it is fun to do this ?  I 
dont know why Im doing it .  Its trying to kill to keep your -  
self alive ,  I imagine .  I was all right when we started talking .  
I didnt mean to start this ,  and now Im crazy as a coot and 
being as cruel to you as I can be .  Dont pay any attention ,  
darling ,  to what I say .  I love you ,  really .  You know I love 
you .  Ive never loved anyone else the way I love you .  5 

He slipped into the familiar lie he made his bread and 
butter by .  

Youre sweet to me .  

You bitch ,  he said .  You rich bitch .  Thats poetry .  Im 
full of poetry now .  Rot and poetry .  Rotten poetry .  

Stop it .  Harry ,  why do you have to turn into a devil 
now ?  

I dont like to leave anything ,  the man said .  I dont like 
to leave things behind .  

It was evening now and he had been asleep .  The sun was 
gone behind the hill and there was a shadow all across the 
plain and the small animals were feeding close to camp ;  



THE SNOWS OF KILIMANJARO 65 

quick dropping heads and switching tails ,  he watched them 
keeping well out away from the bush now .  The birds no 
longer waited on the ground .  They were all perched heavily 
in a tree .  There were many more of them .  His personal 
boy was sitting by the bed .  

Memsahib*s gone to shoot ,  3 the boy said .  Does Bwana 
want ?  5 

Nothing .  

She had gone to kill a piece of meat and ,  knowing how he 
liked to watch the game ,  she had gone well away so she 
would not disturb this little pocket of the plain that he could 
see .  She was always thoughtful ,  he thought .  On anything 
she knew about ,  or had read ,  or that she had ever heard .  

It was not her fault that when he went to her he was 
already over .  How could a woman know that you meant 
nothing that you said ;  that you spoke only from habit and 
to be comfortable ?  After he no longer meant what he said ,  
his lies were more successful with women than when he had 
told them the truth .  

It was not so much that he lied as that there was no truth 
to tell .  He had had his life and it was over and then he 
went on living it again with different people and more 
money ,  with the best of the same places ,  and some new ones .  

You kept from thinking and it was all marvellous .  You 
 \ vere equipped with good insides so that you did not go to 
pieces that way ,  the way most of them had ,  and you made an 
attitude that you cared nothing for the work you used to do ,  
now that you could no longer do it .  But ,  in yourself ,  you 
said that you would write about these people ;  about the 
very rich ;  that you were really not of them but a spy in their 
country ;  that you would leave it and write of it and for once 
it would be written by some one who knew what he was 
writing of .  But he would never do it ,  because each day of not 
writing ,  of comfort ,  of being that which he despised ,  dulled 
his ability and softened his will to work so that ,  finally ,  he 
did no work at all .  The people he knew now were all much 



66 THE SNOWS OF KILIMANJARO 

more comfortable when he did not work .  Africa was where 
he had been happiest in the good time of his life ,  so he had 
come out here to start again .  They had made this safari 
 \ tfith the minimum of comfort .  There was no hardship ;  
but there was no luxury and he had thought that he could 
get back into training that way .  That in some* way he could 
work the fat off his soul the way a fighter went into the 
mountains to work and train in order to burn it out of his 
body .  

She had liked it .  She said she loved it .  She loved anything 
that was exciting ,  that involved a change of scene ,  where 
there were new people and where things were pleasant .  
And he had felt the illusion of returning strength of will to 
work .  Now if this was how it ended ,  and he knew it was ,  he 
must not turn like some snake biting itself because its back 
was broken .  It wasnt this womans fault .  If it had not been 
she it would have been another .  If he lived by a lie he 
should try to die by it .  He heard a shot beyond the hill .  

She shot very well ,  this good ,  this rich bitch ,  this kindly 
caretaker and destroyer of his talent .  Nonsense .  He had 
destroyed his talent himself .  Why should he blame this 
woman because she kept him well ?  He had destroyed his 
talent by not using it ,  by betrayals of himself and what he 
believed in ,  by drinking so much that he blunted the edge 
of his perceptions ,  by laziness ,  by sloth ,  and by snobbery ,  
by pride and by prejudice ,  by hook and by crook .  What was 
this ?  A catalogue of old books ?  What was his talent any -  
way ?  It was a talent all right but instead of using it ,  he had 
traded on it .  It was never what he had done ,  but always 
what he could do .  And he had chosen to make his living with 
something else instead of a pen or a pencil .  It was strange ,  
tod ,  wasnt it ,  that when he fell in love with another woman ,  
that woman should always have more money than the last 
one ?  But when he no longer was in love ,  when he was only 
lying ,  as to this woman ,  now ,  who had the most money of 
all ,  who had all the money that was ,  who had had a husband 



THE SNOWS OF KILIMANJARO 67 

and children ,   who had taken lovers and been dissatisfied 
with them ,  and who loved him dearly as a writer ,  as a man ,  
as a companion and as a proud possession ;  it was .  strange 
that when he did not love her at all and was lying ,  that Ire 
should be able to give her more for her money thamwhen he 
had really loVed .  

We must all be cut out for what we do ,  he thought .  How -  
ever you make your living is where your talent lies .  He had 
sold vitality ,  in one form or another ,  all his life ,  and when 
your affections are not too involved you give much better 
value for the money .  He had found that out but he would 
never write that ,  now ,  either .  No ,  he would not write that ,  
although it was well worth writing .  

Now she came in sight ,  walking across the open towards 
the camp .  She was wearing jodhpurs and carrying her rifle .  
The two boys had a Tommie slung and they were coming 
along behind her .  She was still a good - looking woman ,  he 
thought ,  and she had a pleasant body .  She had a great 
talent and appreciation for the bed ,  she was not pretty ,  but 
he liked her face ,  she read enormously ,  liked to ride and 
shoot and ,  certainly ,  she drank too much .  Her husband had 
died when she was still a comparatively young woman and 
for a while she had devoted herself to her two just - grown 
children ,  who did not need her and were embarrassed at 
having her about ,  to her stable of horses ,  to books ,  and to 
bottles .  She liked to read in the evening before dinner and 
she drank Scotch and soda while she read .  By dinner she 
was fairly drunk and after a bottle of wine at dinner she was 
usually drunk enough to sleep .  

That was before the lovers .  After she had the Ipvers she 
did not drink so much because she did not have to be drunk 
to sleep .  But the lovers bored her .  She had been married 
to a man who had never bored her and these people bored 
her very much .  

Then one of her two children was killed in a plane crash 
and after that was over she did not want the lovers ,  and drink 



68 THE SNOWS OF KILIMANJARO 

being no anaesthetic she had to make another life .  Suddenly ,  
she had been acutely frightened of being alone .  But she 
wanted someone that she respected with her .  

% It had begun very simply .  She liked what he wrote and 
she had always envied the life he led .  She thought he did 
exactly what he wanted to .  The steps by Which she had 
acquired him and the way in which she had finally fallen in 
love with him were all part of a regular progression in which 
she had built herself a new life and he had traded away what 
remained of his old life .  

He had traded it for security ,  for comfort too ,  there was no 
denying that ,  and for what else ?  He did not know .  She 
would have brought him anything he wanted .  He knew that .  
She was a damned nice woman too .  He would as soon be in 
bed with her as anyone ;  rather with her ,  because she was 
richer ,  because she was very pleasant and appreciative 
and because she never made scenes .  And now this life that 
she had built again was coming to a term because he had not 
used iodine two weeks ago when a thorn had scratched his 
knee as they moved forward trying to photograph a herd 
of waterbuck standing ,  their heads up ,  peering while their 
nostrils searched the air ,  their ears spread wide to hear the 
first noise that would send them rushing into the bush .  
They had bolted ,  too ,  before he got the picture .  

Here she came now .  

He turned his head on the cot to look toward her .  Hello ,  
he said .  

I shot a Tommy ram ,  she told him .  Hell make you 
good broth and Ill have them mash some potatoes with the 
Klim .  How do you feel ?  

Much better .  

Isnt that lovely ?  You know I thought perhaps you 
would .  You were sleeping >vhen I left .  

I had a good sleep .  Did you walk far ?  5 

No .  Just around behind the hill .  I made quite a good 
shot on the Tommy .  



THE SNOWS OF KILIMANJARO 69 

You shoot marvellously ,  you know .  5 

I love it .  Ive loved Africa .  Really .  If youre all right its 
the most fun that Ive ever had .  You dont know the fun its 
been to shoot with you .  Ive loved the country .  

I love it too .  r 

Darling ,  you dont know how marvellous it is to see you 
feeling better .  I couldnt stand it when you felt that way .  
You wont talk to me like that again ,  will you ?  Promise 
me ?  

No ,  he said .  I dont remember what I said .  

You dont have to destroy me .  Do you ?  Im only a 
middle - aged woman who loves you and wants to do what you 
want to do .  Ive been destroyed two or three times already .  
You wouldnt want to destroy me again ,  would you ?  

Td like to destroy you a few times in bed ,  he said .  

Yes .  Thats the good destruction .  Thats the way were 
made to be destroyed .  The plane will be here to - morrow .  

How do you know ?  

Tm sure .  Its bound to come .  The boys have the wood all 
ready and the grass to make the smudge .  I went down and 
looked at it again to - day .  Theres plenty of room to land and 
we have the smudges ready at both ends .  

What makes you think it will come to - morrow ?  

Im sure it will .  Its overdue now .  Then ,  in town ,  they 
will fix up your leg and then we will have some good 
destruction .  Not that dreadful talking kind .  

Should we have a drink ?  The sun is down .  

Do you think you should ?  

Tm having one .  

Well have one together .  Molo ,  letti dui whisky - soda! she 
called .  

Youd better put on your mosquito boots ,  he told her .  

Til wait till I bathe  .   .   .  

While it grew dark they drank and just before it was dark 
and there was no longer enough light to shoot ,  a hyena 
crossed the open on his way around the hill .  



70 THE SNOWS OF KILIMANJARO 

That bastard crosses there every night /  the man said .  
Every night for two weeks /  

Hes the one makes the noise at night .  I dont mind it .  
Theyre a filthy animal though .  

Drinking together ,  with no pain now except the discomfort 
of lying in the one position ,  the boys lighting a fire ,  its 
shadow jumping on the tents ,  he could feel the return of 
acquiescence in this life of pleasant surrender .  She was very 
good to him .  He had been cruel and unjust in the afternoon .  
She was a fine woman ,  marvellous really .  And just then it 
occurred to him that he was going to die .  

It came with a rush ;  not as a rush of water nor of wind ;  but 
of a sudden evil - smelling emptiness and the odd thing was 
that the hyena slipped lightly along the edge of it .  

What is it ,  Harry ?  she asked him .  

Nothing ,  he said .  You had better move over to the 
other side .  To windward .  

Did Molo change the dressing ?  

Yes .  Im just using the boric now .  

How do you feel ?  

A little wobbly .  

Im going in to bathe ,  she said .  Til be right out .  Ill eat 
with you and then well put the cot in .  

So ,  he said to himself ,  we did well to stop the quarrelling .  
He had never quarrelled much with this woman ,  while with 
the women that he loved he had quarrelled so much they had 
finally ,  always ,  with the corrosion of the quarrelling ,  killed 
what they had together .  He had loved too much ,  demanded 
too much ,  and he wore it all out .  

He thought about alone in Constantinople that time ,  having 
quarrelled in Paris before he had gone out .  He had whored the whole 
time and then ,  when that was over ,  and he had failed to kill his 
loneliness ,  but only made it worse ,  he had written her ,  the first one ,  
tht one who left him ,  a letter telling her how he had never been able 
to kill it  .   .   .  How when he thought he saw her outside the Regence 



THE SNOWS OF KILIMANJARO 71 

one time it made him go all faint and sick inside ,  and that he would 
follow a woman who looked like her in some way ,  along the Boulevard ,  
afraid to see it was not she ,  afraid to lose the feeling it gave him .  
How everyone he had slept with had only made him miss her mofe .  
How what she had done could never matter since he knew he could 
not cure himself of loving her .  He wrote this letter at the Club ,  cold 
sober ,  and mailed it to New York asking her to write him at the 
office in Paris .  That seemed safe .  And that night missing her so 
much it made him feel hollow sick inside ,  he wandered up past 
Taxings ,  picked a girl up and took her out to supper .  He had gone 
to a place to dance with her afterwards ,  she danced badly ,  and left 
her for a hot Armenian slut ,  that swung her belly against him so it 
almost scalded .  He took her away from a British gunner subaltern 
after a row .  The gunner asked him outside and they fought in the 
street on the cobbles in the dark .  Hed hit him twice ,  hard ,  on the 
side of the jaw and when he didnt go down he knew he was in for a 
fight .  The gunner hit him in the body ,  then beside his eye .  He swung 
with his left again and landed and the gunner fell on him and 
grabbed his coat and tore the sleeve off and he clubbed him twice 
behind the ear and then smashed him with his right as he pushed him 
away .  When the gunner went down his head hit first and he ran 
with the girl because they heard the M . P . s coming .  They got into a 
taxi and drove out to Rimmily Hissa along the Bosphorus ,  and 
around ,  and back in the cool night and went to bed and she felt as 
over - ripe as she looked but smooth ,  rose - petal ,  syrupy ,  smooth -  
bellied ,  big - breasted and needed no pillow under her buttocks ,  and he 
left her before she was awake looking blousy enough in the fast 
daylight and turned up at the Pera Palace with a black eye ,  carrying 
his coat because one sleeve was missing .  

That same night he left for Anatolia and he remembered ,  later on 
that trip ,  riding all day through fields of the poppies that they raised 
for opium and how strange it made you feel ,  finally ,  and all the 
distances seemed wrong ,  to where they had made the attack with the 
newly - arrived Constantine officers ,  that did not know a god - damned 
thing ,  and the artillery had fired into the troops and the British 
observer had cried like a child .  



72 THE SNOWS OF KILIMANJARO 

That was the day hed first seen dead men wearing white ballet 
skirts and upturned shoes with pompoms on them .  The Turks had 
come steadily and lumpily and he had seen the skirted men running 
and the officers shooting into them and running then themselves and 
he and the British observer had run too until his lungs ached and his 
mouth was full of the taste of pennies and they stopped behind some 
rocks and there were the Turks coming as lumpily as ever .  Later 
he had seen the things that he could never think of and later still he 
had seen ,  much worse .  So when he got back to Paris that time he 
could not talk about it or stand to have it mentioned .  And there in the 
cafe as he passed was that American poet with a pile of saucers in 
front of him and a stupid look on his potato face talking about the 
Dada movement with a Roumanian who said his name was Tristan 
Tzarti ,  who always wore a monocle and had a headache ,  and ,  back 
at the apartment with his wife that now he loved again ,  the quarrel 
all over ,  the madness all over ,  glad to be home ,  the office sent his 
mail up to the flat .  So then the letter in answer to the one hed written 
came in on a platter one morning and when he saw the hand - writing 
he went cold all over and tried to slip the letter underneath another .  
But his wife said ,  Who is that letter from ,  dear ?  and that was the 
end of the beginning of that .  

He remembered the good times with them all ,  and the quarrels .  
They always picked the finest places to have the quarrels .  And why 
had they always quarrelled when he was feeling best ?  He had never 
written any of that because ,  at first ,  he never wanted to hurt anyone 
and then it seemed as though there was enough to write without it .  
But he had always thought that he would write it finally .  There was 
so much to write .  He had seen the world change ;  not just the events ;  
although he had seen many of them and had watched the people ,  but 
he had seen the subtler change and he could remember how the people 
were at different times .  He had been in it and he had watched it and it 
was his duty to write of it ;  but now he never would .  

How do you feel ?  she said .  She had come out from the 
tent now after her bath .  
All right .  



THE SNOWS OF KILIMANJARO 73 

Gould you eat now ?  He saw Molo behind her with the 
folding table and the other boy with the dishes .  

I want to write ,  he said .  

You ought to take some broth to keep your strength up . i  ,  

Im going to die to - night ,  he said .  I dont need my 
strength up .  

Dont be melodramatic ,  Harry ,  please /  she said .  

Why dont you use your nose ?  Im rotted half - way up my 
thigh now .  What the hell should I fool with broth for ?  
Molo ,  bring whisky - soda .  

Please take the broth ,  she said gently .  

All right .  

The broth was too hot .  He had to hold it in the cup until it 
cooled enough to take it and then he just got it down without 
gagging .  

Youre a fine woman ,  he said .  Dont pay any attention 
to me .  

She looked at him with her well - known ,  well - loved face 
from Spur and Town and Country ,  only a little the worse for 
drink ,  only a little the worse for bed ,  but Town and Country 
never showed those good breasts and those useful thighs and 
those lightly small - of - back caressing hands ,  and as he looked 
and saw her well - known pleasant smile ,  he felt death come 
again .  This time there was no rush .  It was a puff ,  as of a 
wind that makes a candle flicker and the flame go tall .  

They can bring my net out later and hang it from the tree 
and build the fire up .  Im not going in the tent to - night .  
Its not worth moving .  Its a clear night .  There wont be 
any rain .  

So this was how you died ,  in whispers that you did not 
hear .  Well ,  there would be no more quarrelling .  He 
could promise that .  The one experience that he had never 
had he was not going to spoil now .  He probably would .  
You spoiled everything .  But perhaps he wouldnt .  

You cant take dictation ,  can you ?  

I never learned ,  she told him .  



74 THE SNOWS OF KILIMANJARO 

Thats all right .  

There wasnt time ,  of course ,  although it seemed as though 
it telescoped so that you might put it all into one paragraph if 
you could get it right .  

There was a log house ,  chinked white with mortar^ on a hill above 
the lake .  There was a bell on a pole by the door to call the people 
in to meals .  Behind the house were fields and behind the fields was 
the timber .  A line of lombardy poplars ran from the house to the 
dock .  Other poplars ran along the point .  A road went up to the hills 
along the edge of the timber and along that road he picked black -  
berries .  Then that log house was burned down and all the guns 
that had been on deer foot racks above the open fire place were burned 
and afterwards their barrels ,  with the lead melted in the magazines ,  
and the stocks burned away ,  lay out on the heap of ashes that were 
used to make lye for the big iron soap kettles ,  and you asked Grand -  
father if you could have them to play with ,  and he said ,  no .  Ton 
see they were his guns still and he never bought any others .  JVbr did 
he hunt any more .  The house was rebuilt in the same place out of 
lumber now and painted white and from its porch you saw the 
poplars and the lake beyond ;  but there were never any more guns .  
The barrels of the guns that had hung on the deer feet on the wall 
of the log house lay out there on the heap of ashes and no one ever 
touched them .  

In the Black Forest ,  after the war ,  we rented a trout stream and 
there were two ways to walk to it .  One was down the valley from 
Triberg and around the valley road in the shade of the trees that 
bordered the white road ,  and then up a side road that went up 
through the hills ,  past many small farms ,  with the big Schwarzwald 
houses ,  until that road crossed the stream .  That was where our 
fishing began .  

The other way was to climb steeply up to the edge of the woods and 
then go across the top of the hills through the pine woods ,  and then out 
to the edge of a meadow and down across this meadow to the bridge .  
There were birches along the stream and it was not big ,  but narrow ,  
clear and fast ,  with pools where it had cut under the roots of the 



THE SNOWS OF KILIMANJARO 75 

birches .  At the Hotel in Triberg the proprietor had a fine season .  
It was very pleasant and we were all great friends .  The next year 
came the inflation and the money he had made the year before was not 
enough to buy supplies to open the hotel and he hanged himself .  

You could dictate that ,  but you could not dictate the Place Contre -  
scarpe where the flower sellers dyed their flowers in the street and the 
dye ran over the paving where the autobus started and the old men 
and the women ,  always drunk on wine and bad marc ;  and the children 
with their noses running in the cold ;  the smell of dirty sweat and 
poverty and drunkenness at the Cafe des Amateurs and the whores 
at the Bal Musette they lived above .  The Concierge who entertained 
the trooper of the Garde Republicaine in her loge ,  his horse - hair -  
plumed helmet on a chair .  The locataire across the hall whose 
husband was a bicycle racer and her joy that morning at the Cremerie 
when she had opened LAuto and seen where he placed third in 
Paris - Tours ,  his first big race .  She had blushed and laughed and 
then gone upstairs crying with the yellow sporting paper in her hand .  
The husband of the woman who ran the Bal Musette drove a taxi 
and when he ,  Harry ,  had to take an early plane the husband knocked 
upon the door to wake him and they each drank a glass of white wine 
at the zinc of the bar before they started .  He knew his neighbours 
in that quarter then because they all were poor .  

Around that Place there were two kinds: the drunkards and the 
sportifs .  The drunkards killed their poverty that way ;  the sportifs 
took it out in exercise .  They were the descendants of the Com -  
munards and it was no struggle for them to know their politics .  
They knew who had shot their fathers ,  their relatives ,  their brothers ,  
and their friends when the Versailles troops came in and took the 
town after the Commune and executed anyone they could catch with 
calloused hands ,  or who wore a cap ,  or carried any other sign he was 
a working man .  And in that poverty ,  and in that quarter across the 
street from a Boucherie Chevaline and a wine - co - operative he had 
written the start of all he was to do .  There never was another part 
of Paris that he loved like that ,  the sprawling trees ,  the old white 
plastered houses painted brown below ,  the long green of the autobus 
in that round square ,  the purple flower dye upon the paving ,  the 



76 THE SNOWS OF KILIMANJARO 

sudden drop down the hill of the rue Cardinal Lemoine to the River ,  
and the other way the narrow crowded world of the rue Mouffetard .  
The street that ran up toward the Pantheon and the other that he 
always took with the bicycle ,  the only asphalted street in all that 
quarter ,  smooth under the tyres ,  with the high narrow houses and the 
cheap tall ~hotel where Paul Verlaine had died .  There were only two 
rooms in the apartments where they lived and he had a room on the 
top floor of that hotel that cost him sixty francs a month where he 
did his writing ,  and from it he could see the roofs and chimney pots 
and all the hills of Paris .  

From the apartment you could only see the wood and coal mans 
plate .  He sold wine ,  too ,  bad wine .  The golden horses head 
outside the Boucherie Chevaline where the carcasses hung yellow gold 
and red in the open window ,  and the green painted co - operative 
where they bought their wine ;  good wine and cheap .  The rest was 
plaster walls and the windows of the neighbours .  The neighbours 
who ,  at night ,  when someone lay drunk in the street ,  moaning and 
groaning in that typical French ivresse that you were propaganded 
to believe did not exist ,  would open their windows and then the 
murmur of talk .  

Where is the policeman ?  When you dont want him the bugger 
is always there .  Hes sleeping with some concierge .  Get the Agent .  
Till someone threw a bucket of water from a window and the moaning 
stopped .  Whats that ?  Water .  Ah ,  thats intelligent And the 
windows shutting .  Marie ,  hisfemme de menage ,  protesting against 
the eight - hour day saying ,  If a husband works until six he gets only 
a little drunk on the way home and does not waste too much .  If he 
works only until Jive he is drunk every night and one has no money .  
It is the wife of the working man who suffers from this shortening of 
hours 

Wouldnt you like some more broth ?  the woman asked 
now .  

No ,  thank you very much .  It is awfully good .  5 

Try just a little .  

I would like a whisky - soda .  



THE SNOWS OF KILIMANJARO 77 

Its not good for you .  

No .  Its bad for me .  Cole Porter wrote the words and the 
music .  This knowledge that youre going mad for me .  

You know I like you to drink .  

Oh yes .  Only its bad for me .  

When she goes ,  he thought .  Ill have all I want .  Not all I 
want but all there is .  Ayee ,  he was tired .  Too tired .  He was 
going to sleep a little while .  He lay still and death was not 
there .  It must have gone around another street .  It went in 
pairs ,  on bicycles ,  and moved absolutely silently on the 
pavements .  

No ,  he had never written about Paris .  Not the Paris that he cared 
about .  But what about the rest that he had never written ?  

What about the ranch and the silvered grey of the sage brush ,  the 
quick ,  clear water in the irrigation ditches ,  and the heavy green of the 
alfalfa ?  The trail went up into the hills and the cattle in the summer 
were shy as deer .  The bawling and the steady noise and slow moving 
mass raising a dust as you brought them down in the fall .  And behind 
the mountains ,  the clear sharpness of the peak in the evening light and ,  
riding down along the train in the moonlight ,  bright across the valley .  
Now he remembered coming down through the timber in the dark 
holding the horses tail when you could not see and all the stories that 
he meant to write .  

About the half  - wit chore boy who was .  left at the ranch that time 
and told not to let any one get any hay ,  and that old bastard from the 
Forks who had beaten the boy when he had worked for him stopping 
to get some feed .  The boy refusing and the old man saying he would 
beat him again .  The boy got the rifle from the kitchen and shot him 
when he tried to come into the barn and when they came back to the 
ranch hed been dead a week ,  frozen in the corral ,  and the dogs had 
eaten part of him .  But what was left you packed on a sled wrapped in 
a blanket and roped on and you got the boy to help you haul it ,  and 
the two of you took it out over the road on skis ,  and sixty miles down 
to town to turn the boy over .  He having no idea that he would be 
arrested .  Thinking he had done his duty and that you were his 



78 THE SNOWS OF KILIMANJARO 

friend and he would be rewarded .  Hed helped to haul the old man 
in so everybody could know how bad the old man had been ,  and how 
hed tried to steal some feed that didnt belong to him ,  and when the 
sheriff put the handcuffs on the boy he couldnt believe it .  Then hed 
started to cry .  That was one story he had saved to write .  He knew 
at least twenty good stories from out there and he had never written 
one .  Why ?  

You tell them why ,  he said .  

Why what ,  dear ?  

Why nothing .  

She didnt drink so much ,  now ,  since she had him .  But if 
he lived he would never write about her ,  he knew that now .  
Nor about any of them .  The rich were dull and they drank 
too much ,  or they played too much backgammon .  They 
were dull and they were repetitious .  He remembered poor 
Julian and his romantic awe of them and how he had started 
a story once that began ,  The very rich are different from 
you and me .  And how someone had said to Julian .  Yes ,  they 
have more money .  But that was not humorous to Julian .  
He thought they were a special glamorous race and when 
he found they werent it wrecked him just as much as any 
other thing that wrecked him .  

He had been contemptuous of those who wrecked .  You 
did not have to like it because you understood it .  He could 
beat anything ,  he thought ,  because nothing could hurt him 
if he did not care .  

All right .  Now he would not care for death .  One thing he 
had always dreaded was the pain .  He could stand pain as 
well as any man ,  until it went on too long ,  and wore him out ,  
but here he had something that had hurt frightfully and just 
when he had felt it breaking him ,  the pain had stopped .  

He remembered long ago when Williamson ,  the bombing officer ,  
had been hit by a stick bomb some one in a German patrol had thrown 
as he was coming in through the wire that night and ,  screaming ,  had 



THE SNOWS OF KILIMANJARO 79 

begged everyone to kill him .  He was a fat man ,  very brave ,  and a good 
officer ,  although addicted to fantastic shows .  But that night he was 
caught in the wire ,  with a flare lighting him up and his bowels spilled 
out into the wire ,  so when they brought him in ,  alive ,  they had to cut 
him loose .  Shoot me ,  Harry .  For Christ sake shoot me .  They had 
had an argument one time about our Lord never sending you anything 
you could not bear and someones theory had been that meant that a 
certain time the pain passed you out automatically .  But he had always 
remembered Williamson ,  that night .  Nothing passed out Williamson 
until he gave him all his morphine tablets that he had always saved 
to use himself and then they did not work right away .  

Still this now ,  that he had ,  was very easy ;  and if it was no 
worse as it went on there was nothing to worry about .  Except 
that he would rather be in better company .  

He thought a little about the company that he would like 
to have .  

No ,  he thought ,  when everything you do ,  you do too long ,  
and do too late ,  you cant expect to find the people still there .  
The people are all gone .  The partys over and you are with 
your hostess now .  

Im getting as bored with dying as with everything else ,  he 
thought .  

Its a bore ,  he said out loud .  

What is ,  my dear ?  

Anything you do too bloody long .  

He looked at her face between him and the fire .  She was 
leaning back in the chair and the firelight shone on her 
pleasantly lined face and he could see that she was sleepy .  
He heard the hyena make a noise just outside the range of 
the fire .  

Ive been writing ,  he said .  But I got tired /  

Do you think you will be able to sleep ?  

Pretty sure .  Why dont you turn in ?  

I like to sit here with you .  5 

Do you feel anything strange ?  he asked her .  



8o THE SNOWS OF KILIMANJARO 

No .  Just a little sleepy .  

I do ,  he said .  

He had just felt death come by again .  

You know the only thing Ive never lost is curiosity /  he 
said to her .  

Youve never lost anything .  Youre the most complete 
man Ive ever known .  

Christ /  he said .  How little a woman knows .  What is 
that ?  Your intuition ?  

Because ,  just then ,  death had come and rested its head on 
the foot of the cot and he could smell its breath .  

Never believe any of that about a scythe and a skull ,  he 
told her .  It can be two bicycle policemen as easily or be a 
bird .  Or it can have a wide snout like a hyena .  

It had moved up on him now ,  but it had no shape any 
more .  It simply occupied space .  

Tell it to go away .  

It did not go away but moved a little closer .  

Youve got a hell of a breath /  he told it .  You stinking 
bastard .  

It moved up closer to him still and now he could not speak 
to it ,  and when it saw he could not speak it came a little closer ,  
and now he tried to send it away without speaking ,  but it 
moved in on him so its weight was all upon his chest ,  and 
while it crouched there and he could not move ,  or speak ,  he 
heard the woman say ,  Bwana is asleep now .  Take the cot 
up very gently and carry it into the tent .  

He could not speak to tell her to make it go away and it 
crouched now ,  heavier so he Could not breathe .  And then ,  
while they lifted the cot ,  suddenly it was all right and the 
weight went from his chest .  

It was morning and had been morning for some time and 
he heard the plane .  It showed very tiny and then made a 
wide circle and the boys ran out and lit the fires ,  using kero -  
sene ,  and piled on grass so there were two big smudges at each 



THE SNOWS OF KILIMANJARO 81 

a 

end of the level place and the morning breeze blew them 
toward the camp and the plane circled twice more ,  low this 
time ,  and then glided down and levelled off and landed 
smoothly and ,  coming walking toward him ,  was old Comp -  
ton in slacks ,  a tweed jacket and a brown felt hat .  

Whats th matter ,  old cock ?  5 Compton said .  

Bad leg ,  he told him .  Will you have some breakfast ?  

Thanks .  Ill just have some tea .  Its the Puss Moth ,  you 
know .  I wont be able to take the Memsahib .  Theres only 
room for one .  Your lorry is on the way .  

Helen had taken Compton aside and was speaking to him .  
Compton came back more cheery than ever .  

Well get you right in ,  he said .  Til be back for the Mem .  
Now Im afraid Ill have to stop at Arusha to refuel .  Wed 
better get going .  

What about the tea ?  

I dont really care about it ,  you know .  5 

The boys had picked up the cot and carried it around the 
green tents and down along the rock and out on to the plain 
and along past the smudges that were burning brightly now ,  
the grass all consumed ,  and the wind fanning the fire ,  to the 
little plane .  It was difficult getting him in ,  but once in he lay 
back in the leather seat ,  and the leg was stuck straight out to 
one side of the seat where Compton sat .  Compton started the 
motor and got in .  He waved to Helen and to the boys and ,  as 
the clatter moved into the old familiar roar ,  they swung 
around with Compie watching for wart - hog holes and roared ,  
bumping ,  along the stretch between the fires and with the 
last bump rose and he saw them all standing below ,  waving ,  
and the camp beside the hill ,  flattening now ,  and the plain 
spreading ,  clumps of trees ,  and the bush flattening ,  while the 
game trails ran now smoothly to the dry waterholes ,  and 
there was a new water that he had never known of .  The 
zebra ,  small rounded backs now ,  and the wildebeeste ,  big -  
headed dots seeming to climb as they moved in long fingers 
across the plain ,  now scattering as the shadow came toward 



82 THE SNOWS OF KILIMANJARO 

them ,  they were tiny now ,  and the movement had no gallop ,  
and the plain as far as you could see ,  grey - yellow now and 
ahead old Compies tweed back and the brown felt hat .  Then 
they were over the first hills and the wildebeeste were trail -  
ing up them ,  and then they were over mountains with sud -  
den depths of green - rising forest and the solid bamboo slopes ,  
and then the heavy forest again ,  sculptured into peaks and 
hollows until they crossed ,  and hills sloped down and then 
another plain ,  hot now ,  and purple brown ,  bumpy with heat 
and Compie looking back to see how he was riding .  Then 
there were other mountains dark ahead .  

And then instead of going on to Arusha they turned left ,  
he evidently figured that they had the gas ,  and looking down 
he saw a pink sifting cloud ,  moving over the ground ,  and in 
the air ,  like the first snow in a blizzard ,  that comes from 
nowhere ,  and he knew the locusts were coming up from the 
South .  Then they began to climb and they were going to the 
East it seemed ,  and then it darkened and they were in a 
storm ,  the rain so thick it seemed like flying through a water -  
fall ,  and then they were out and Compie turned his head and 
grinned and pointed and there ,  ahead ,  all he could see ,  as 
wide as all the world ,  great ,  high ,  and unbelievably white 
in the sun ,  was the square top of Kilimanjaro .  And then he 
knew that there was where he was going .  

Just then the hyena stopped whimpering in the night and 
started to make a strange ,  human ,  almost crying sound .  The 
woman heard it and stirred uneasily .  She did not waks .  In 
her dream she was at the house on Long Island and it was the 
night before her daughters debut .  Somehow her father was 
there and he had been very rude .  Then the noise the hyena 
made was so loud she woke and for a moment she did not 
know where she was and she was very afraid .  Then she took 
the flashlight and shone it on the other cot that they had 
carried in after Harry had gone to sleep .  She could see his 
bulk under the mosquito bar but somehow he had gotten his 



THE SNOWS OF KILIMANJARO 83 

leg out and it hung down alongside the cot .  The dressings 
had all come down and she could not look at it .  

Molo ,  she called .  Molo! Molo! 

Then she said ,  Harry ,  Harry! Then her voice rising ,  
Harry! Please ,  Oh Harry! 5 

There was no answer and she could not hear him breathing .  

Outside the tent the hyena made the same strange noise 
that had awakened her .  But she did not hear him for the 
beating of her heart .  



* 
OLD MAN AT THE BRIDGE 

AN old man with steel rimmed spectacles and very dusty 
clothes sat by the side of the road .  There was a pontoon 
bridge arjoss the river and carts ,  trucks ,  and men ,  women 
and children were crossing it .  The mule - drawn carts stag -  
gered up the steep bank from the bridge with soldiers helping 
push against the spokes of the wheels .  The trucks ground up 
and away heading out of it all and the peasants plodded along 
in the ankle deep dust .  But the old man sat there without 
moving .  He was too tired to go any farther .  

It was my business to cross the bridge ,  explore the bridge -  
head beyond and find out to what point the enemy had 
advanced .  I did this and returned over the bridge .  There 
were not so many carts now and very few people on foot ,  
but the old man was still there .  

Where do you come from ?  I asked him .  

From San Carlos /  he said ,  and smiled .  

That was his native town and so it gave him pleasure to 
mention it and he smiled .  

I was taking care of animals ,  he explained .  

Oh ,  I said ,  not quite understanding .  

Yes ,  he said ,  I stayed ,  you see ,  taking care of animals .  I 
was the last one to leave the town of San Carlos .  

He did not look like a shepherd nor a herdsman and I 
looked at his black dusty clothes and his grey dusty face and 
his steel rimmed spectacles and said ,  What animals were 
they ?  

Various animals ,  he said ,  and shook his head .  I had to 
leave them .  

I was watching the bridge and the African looking country 
of the Ebro Delta and wondering how long now it would be 
before we would see the enemy ,  and listening all the while for 
the first noises that would signal that ever mysterious event 
called contact ,  and the old man still sat there .  

What animals were they ?  I asked .  

84 



OLD MAN AT THE BRIDGE 85 

There were three animals altogether ,  he explained .  
There were two goats and a cat and then there were four 
pairs of pigeons .  

And you had to leave them ?  I asked .  

Yes .  Because of the artillery .  The captain told me to go 
because of the artillery .  

And you have no family ?  I asked ,  watching the far end of 
the bridge where a few last carts were hurrying down the 
slope of the bank .  

No ,  he said ,  only the animals I stated .  The cat ,  of course ,  
will be all right .  A cat can look out for itself ,  but I cannot 
think what will become of the others .  

What politics have you ?  I asked .  

T am without politics ,  he said .  I am seventy - six years old .  
I have come twelve kilometres now and I think now I can go 
no farther .  

This is not a good place to stop ,  I said .  If you can make 
it ,  there are trucks up the road where it forks for Tortosa .  

I will wait a while ,  he said ,  and then I will go .  Where do 
the trucks go ?  

Towards Barcelona ,  I told him .  

I know of no one in that direction ,  he said ,  but thank you 
very much .  Thank you again very much .  

He looked at me very blankly and tiredly ,  then said ,  having 
to share his worry with someone ,  The cat will be all right ,  
I am sure .  There is no need to be unquiet about the cat .  But 
the others .  Now what do you think about the others ?  

Why ,  theyll probably come through it all right .  

You think so ?  

Why not ?  I said ,  watching the far bank where now there 
were no carts .  

But what will they do under the artillery when I was told 
to leave because of the artillery ?  5 

Did you leave the dove cage unlocked ?  I asked .  

Yes .  

Then theyll fly .  



86 OLDMANATTHEBRIDGE 

Yes ,  certainly theyll fly .  But the others .  Its better not to 
think about the others /  he said .  

If you are rested I would go /  I urged .  Get up and try to 
walk now .  

Thank you /  he said and got to his feet ,  swayed from side 
to side and then sat down ,  backwards in the du!st .  

I was taking care of animals /  he said dully ,  but no longer 
to me .  I was only taking care of animals .  

There was nothing to do about him .  It was Easter Sunday 
and the Fascists were advancing toward the Ebro .  It was a 
grey overcast day with a low ceiling so their planes were not 
up .  That and the fact that cats know how to look after them -  
selves was all the good luck that old man would ever have .  



ON THE QUAI AT SMYRNA 

THE strange thing was ,  he said ,  how they screamed every 
night at midnight .  I do not know why they screamed at thc*t 
time .  We were in the harbour and they were all on .  the pier 
and at midnight they started screaming .  We used to turn the 
searchlight on them to quiet them .  That always did the trick .  
Wed run the searchlight up and down over them two or 
three times and they stopped it .  One time I was senior officer 
on the pier and a Turkish officer came up to me in a frightful 
rage because one of our sailors had been most insulting to 
him .  So I told him the fellow would be sent on ship and be 
most severely punished .  I asked him to point him out .  So he 
pointed out a gunners mate ,  most inoffensive chap .  Said 
hed been most frightfully and repeatedly insulting ;  talking 
to me through an interpreter .  I couldnt imagine how the 
gunners mate knew enough Turkish to be insulting .  I called 
him over and said ,  And just in case you should have spoken 
to any Turkish officers .  

I havent spoken to any of them ,  sir .  

Im quite sure of it ,  I said ,  but youd best go on board 
ship and not come ashore again for the rest of the day .  

Then I told the Turk the man was being sent on board 
ship and would be most severely dealt with .  Oh ,  most 
rigorously .  He felt topping about it .  Great friends we were .  

The worst ,  he said ,  were the women with dead babies .  You 
couldnt get the women to give up their dead babies .  
Theyd have babies dead for six days .  Wouldnt give them 
up .  Nothing you could do .  about it .  Had to take them away 
finally .  Then there was an old lady ,  most extraordinary case .  
I told it to a doctor and he said I was lying .  We were clear -  
ing them off the pier ,  had to clear off the dead ones ,  and this 
old woman was lying on a sort of litter .  They said ,  Will you 
have a look at her ,  sir ?  So I had a look at her and just then 
she died and went absolutely stiff .  Her legs drew up and she 
drew up from the waist and went quite rigid .  Exactly as 

93 



94 ON THE QUAIAT SMYRNA 

though she had been dead over night .  She was quite dead 
and absolutely rigid .  I told a medical chap about it and he 
told me it was impossible .  

^ They were all out there on the pier and it wasnt at all like 
an earthquake or that sort of thing because they never knew 
about the Turk .  They never knew what the old Turk would 
do .  You remember when they ordered us not to come in to 
take off any more ?  I had the wind up when we came in that 
morning .  He had any amount of batteries and could have 
blown us clean out of the water .  We were going to come in ,  
run close along the pier ,  let go the front and rear anchors and 
then shell the Turkish quarter of the town .  They would have 
blown us out of water but we would have blown the town 
simply to hell .  They just fired a few blank charges at us as 
we came in .  Kemal came down and sacked the Turkish com -  
mander .  For exceeding his authority or some such thing .  
He got a bit above himself .  It would have been the hell of a 
mess .  

You remember the harbour .  There were plenty of nice 
things floating around in it .  That was the only time in my 
life I got so I dreamed about things .  You didnt mind the 
women who were having babies as you did those with the 
dead ones .  They had them all right .  Surprising how few 
of them died .  You just covered them over with something 
and let them go to it .  Theyd always pick out the darkest 
place in the hold to have them .  None of them minded any -  
thing once they got off the pier .  

The Greeks were nice chaps too .  When they evacuated 
they had all their baggage animals they couldnt take off 
with them so they just broke their forelegs and dumped them 
into the shallow water .  All those mules with their forelegs 
broken pushed over into the shallow water .  It was all a 
pleasant business .  My word ,  yes ,  a most pleasant business .  



IN OUR TIME 

Everybody was drunk .  The whole battery was drunk going along the 
road in the dark .  We were going to the Champagne .  The lieutenant 
kept riding his horse out into the fields and saying to him ,  Tm drunk ,  I 
tell you ,  mon vioux .  Oh ,  I am so soused .  We went along the road all 
night in the dark and the adjutant kept riding up alongside my kitchen 
and saying ,   You must put it out .  It is dangerous .  It will be observed*  .  
We were fifty kilometres from the front but the adjutant worried about 
the fire in my kitchen .  It was funny going along that road .  That was 
when I was a kitchen corporal .  



INDIAN CAMP 

AT the lake shore there was another rowboat drawn up .  The 
two Indians stood waiting .  

Nick and his father got in the stern of the boat and the 
Indians shoved it off and one of them got in to row .  Uncle 
George sat in the stern of the camp rowboat .  The young 
Indian shoved the camp boat off and got in to row Uncle 
George .  

The two boats started off in the dark .  Nick heard the oar -  
locks of the other boat quite a way ahead of them in the mist .  
The Indians rowed with quick choppy strokes .  Nick lay back 
with his fathers arm around him .  It was cold on the water .  
The Indian who was rowing them was working very hard ,  
but the other boat moved farther ahead in the mist all 
the time .  

Where are we going .  Dad ?  Nick asked .  

Over to the Indian camp .  There is an Indian lady very 
sick .  

Oh /  said Nick .  

Across the bay they found the other boat beached .  Uncle 
George was smoking a cigar in the dark .  The young Indian 

95 



96 INDIAN CAMP 

pulled the boat way up on the beach .  Uncle George gave 
both the Indians cigars .  

They walked up from the beach through a meadow that 
was soaking wet with dew ,  following the young Indian who 
carried a lantern .  Then they went into the woods and fol -  
lowed a trail that led to the logging road that ran back into 
the hills .  It was much lighter on the logging road as the 
timber was cut away on both sides .  The young Indian 
stopped and blew out his lantern and they all walked on 
along the road .  

They came around a bend and a dog came out barking .  
Ahead were the lights of the shanties where the Indian bark -  
peelers lived .  More dogs rushed out at them .  The two 
Indians sent them back to the shanties .  In the shanty nearest 
the road there was a light in the window .  An old woman 
stood in the doorway holding a lamp .  

Inside on a wooden bunk lay a young Indian woman .  She 
had been trying to have her baby for two days .  All the old 
women in the camp had been helping her .  The men had 
moved off up the road to sit in the dark and smoke out of 
range of the noise she made .  She screamed just as Nick and 
the two Indians followed his father and Uncle George into 
the shanty .  She lay in the lower bunk ,  very big under a 
quilt .  Her head was turned to one side .  In the upper bunk 
was her husband .  He had cut his foot very badly with an 
axe three days before .  He was smoking a pipe .  The room 
smelled very bad .  

Nicks father ordered some water to be put on the stove ,  
and while it was heating he spoke to Nick .  

This lady is going to have a baby ,  Nick ,  he said .  

I know ,  5 said Nick .  

You dont know ,  said his father .  Listen to me .  What she 
is going through is called being in labour .  The baby wants 
to be born and she wants it to be born .  All her muscles are 
trying to get the baby born .  That is what is happening when 
she screams .  



INDIAN CAMP 97 

I see ,  Nick said .  

Just then the woman cried out .  

Oh ,  Daddy ,  cant you give her something to make her 
stop screaming ?  asked Nick .   .  

No .  I havent any anaesthetic ,  his father said .  But her 
screams are not important .  I dont hear them because they 
are not important .  

The husband in the upper bunk rolled over against the wall .  

The woman in the kitchen motioned to the doctor that the 
water was hot .  Nicks father went into the kitchen and 
poured about half of the water out of the big kettle into a 
basin .  Into the water left in the kettle he put several things 
he unwrapped from a handkerchief .  

Those must boil ,  he said ,  and began to scrub his hands in 
the basin of hot water with a cake of soap he had brought 
from the camp .  Nick watched his fathers hands scrubbing 
each other with the soap .  While his father washed his hands 
very carefully and thoroughly ,  he talked .  

You see ,  Nick ,  babies are supposed to be born head first ,  
but sometimes theyre not .  When theyre not they make a 
lot of trouble for everybody .  Maybe Ill have to operate on 
this lady .  Well know in a little while .  

When he was satisfied with his hands he went in and went 
to work .  

Pull back that quilt ,  will you ,  George ?  he said .  Id 
rather not touch it .  

Later when he started to operate Uncle George and three 
Indian men held the woman still .  She bit Uncle George on 
the arm and Uncle George said ,  Damn squaw bitch! and 
the young Indian who had rowed Uncle George over laughed 
at him .  Nick held the basin for his father .  It all took a long 
time .  

His father picked the baby up and slapped it to make it 
breathe and handed it to the old woman .  

See ,  its a boy ,  Nick ,  he said .  How do you like being an 
interne ?  



98 INDIAN CAMP 

Nick said ,  All right .  He was looking away so as not to 
see what his father was doing .  

There .  That gets it ,  said his father and put something 
ijito the basin .  

Nick cjidnt look at it .  

Now ,  his father said ,  theres some stitches to put in .  You 
can watch this or not ,  Nick ,  just as you like .  Im going to 
sew up the incision I made .  

Nick did not watch .  His curiosity had been gone for a long 
time .  

His father finished and stood up .  Uncle George and the three 
Indian men stood up .  Nick put the basin out in the kitchen .  

Uncle George looked at his arm .  The young Indian smiled 
reminiscently .  

Til put some peroxide on that ,  George ,  the doctor said .  

He bent over the Indian woman .  She was quiet now and 
her eyes were closed .  She looked very pale .  She did not 
know what had become of the baby or anything .  

Til be back in the morning ,  the doctor said ,  standing up .  
The nurse should be here from St .  Ignace by noon and shell 
bring everything we need .  

He was feeling exalted and talkative as football players are 
in the dressing room after a game .  

Thats one for the medical journal ,  George ,  he said .  
Doing a Caesarian with a jack - knife and sewing it up with 
nine - foot ,  tapered gut leaders .  

Uncle George was standing against the wall ,  looking at his 
arm .  

Oh ,  youre a great man ,  all right ,  he said .  

Ought to have a look at the proud father .  Theyre usually 
the worst sufferers in these little affairs ,  the doctor said .  I 
must say he took it all pretty quietly .  

He pulled back the blanket from the Indians head .  His 
hand came away wet .  He mounted on the edge of the lower 
bunk with the lamp in one hand and looked in .  The Indian 
lay with his face toward the wall .  His throat had been cut 



INDIAN CAMP 99 

from ear to ear .  The blood had flowed down into a pool 
where his body sagged the bunk .  His head rested on his left 
arm .  The open razor lay ,  edge up ,  in the blankets .  

Take Nick out of the shanty ,  George ,  the doctor said .  

There was no need of that .  Nick ,  standing in the -  door of 
the kitchen ,  h*ad a good view of the upper bunk when his 
father ,  the lamp in one hand ,  tipped the Indians head back .  

It was just beginning to be daylight when they walked 
along the logging road back toward the lake .  

Im terribly sorry I brought you along ,  Nickie ,  said his 
father ,  all his post - operative exhilaration gone .  It was an 
awful mess to put you through .  

Do ladies always have such a hard time having babies ?  
Nick asked .  

No ,  that was very ,  very exceptional .  

Why did he kill himself ,  Daddy ?  

I dont know ,  Nick .  He couldnt stand things ,  I guess .  

Do many men kill themselves ,  Daddy ?  

Not very many ,  Nick .  

Do many women ?  

Hardly ever .  

Dont they ever ?  

Oh ,  yes .  They do sometimes .  

Daddy ?  

Yes .  

Where did Uncle George go ?  

Hell turn up all right .  

Is dying hard ,  Daddy ?  

No ,  I think its pretty easy ,  Nick .  It all depends .  

They were seated in the boat ,  Nick in the stern ,  his father 
rowing .  The sun was coming up over the hills .  A bass 
jumped ,  making a circle in the water .  Nick trailed his hand 
in the water .  It felt warm in the sharp chill of the morning .  

In the early morning on the lake sitting in the stern of the 
boat with his father rowing ,  he felt quite sure that he would 
never die .  



Minarets stuck up in the rain out of Adrianople across the mudflats .  
The carts were jammed for thirty miles along the Karagatch road .  
Water buffalo and cattle were hauling carts through the mud .  No end 
and no beginning .  Just carts loaded with everything they owned .  
The old men and women ,  soaked through ,  walked along keeping the 
cattle moving .  The Maritza was running yellow almost up to the 
bridge .  Carts were jammed solid on the bridge with camels bobbing 
along through them .  Greek cavalry herded along the procession .  
Women and kids were in the carts couched with mattresses y mirrors ,  
sewing machines ,  bundles .  There was a woman having a kid with a 
young girl holding a blanket over her and crying .  Scared sick looking 
at it .  It rained all through the evacuation .  



THE DOCTOR AND THE 
DOCTORS WIFE 

DICK BOULTON came from the Indian camp to cut up logs 
for Nicks father .  He brought his son Eddy and another 
Indian named Billy Tabeshaw with him .  They came in 
through the back gate out of the woods ,  Eddy carrying the 
long cross - cut saw .  It flopped over his shoulder and made a 
musical sound as he walked .  Billy Tabeshaw carried two 
big cant - hooks .  Dick had three axes under his arm .  

He turned and shut the gate .  The others went on ahead of 
him down to the lake shore where the logs were buried in the 
sand .  

The logs had been lost from the big log booms that were 
towed down the lake to the mill by the steamer Magic .  They 
had drifted up on to the beach and if nothing were done 
about them sooner or later the crew of the Magic would come 
along the shore in a rowboat ,  spot the logs ,  drive an iron spike 
with a ring on it into the end of each one and then tow them 
out into the lake to make a new boom .  But the lumbermen 
might never come for them because a few logs were not worth 

100 



THE DOCTOR AND THE DOCTORS WIFEioi 

the price of a crew to gather them .  If no one came for them 
they would be left to waterlog and rot on the beach .  

Nicks father always assumed that this was what would 
happen ,  and hired the Indians to come down from the camp 
and cut the logs up with the cross - cut saw and split them with 
a wedge to make cord wood and chunks for the open fire -  
place .  Dick Boulton walked around past the cottage down to 
the lake .  There were four big beech logs lying almost buried 
in the sand .  Eddy hung the saw up by one of its handles in 
the crotch of a tree .  Dick put the three axes down on the 
little dock .  Dick was a half - breed and many of the farmers 
around the lake believed he was really a white man .  He was 
very lazy but a great worker once he was started .  He took a 
plug of tobacco out of his pocket ,  bit off a chew and spoke 
in Ojibway to Eddy and Billy Tabeshaw .  

They sunk the ends of their cant - hooks into one of the 
logs and swung against it to loosen it in the sand .  They 
swung their weight against the shafts of the cant - hooks .  The 
log moved in the sand .  Dick Boulton turned to Nicks father .  

Well ,  Doc ,  he said ,  thats a nice lot of timber youve 
stolen .  

Dont talk that way ,  Dick ,  the doctor said .  Its drift -  
wood .  

Eddy and Billy Tabeshaw had rocked the log out of the 
wet sand and rolled it toward the water .  

Tut it right in ,  Dick Boulton shouted .  

What are you doing that for ?  asked the doctor .  

Wash it off .  Clean off the sand on account of the saw .  I 
want to see who it belongs to ,  Dick said .  

The log was just awash in the lake .  Eddy and Billy Tabe -  
shaw leaned on their cant - hooks sweating in the sun .  Dick 
kneeled down in the sand and looked at the mark of the 
sealers hammer in the wood at the end of the log .  

It belongs to White and McNally ,  5 he said ,  standing up 
and brushing off his trousers knees .  

The doctor was very uncomfortable .  



102 THE DOCTOR AND THE DOCTORS WIFE 

Youd better not saw it up then ,  Dick /  he said ,  shortly .  

Dont get huffy ,  Doc ,  said Dick .  Dont get huffy .  I 
dont care who you steal from .  Its none of my business .  
i If you think the logs are stolen ,  leave them alone and take 
your tools back to the camp ,  the doctor said .  His face was 
red .  r 

Dont go off at half cock ,  Doc ,  Dick said .  He spat tobacco 
juice on the log .  It slid off ,  thinning in the water .  You 
know theyre stolen as well as I do .  It dont make any 
difference to me .  

All right .  If you think the logs are stolen ,  take your stuff 
and get out .  

Now ,  Doc  

Take your stuff and get out .  

Listen ,  Doc .  

If you call me Doc once again ,  Ill knock your eye teeth 
down your throat .  

Oh ,  no ,  you wont ,  Doc .  5 

Dick Boulton looked at the doctor .  Dick was a big man .  
He knew how big a man he was .  He liked to get into fights .  
He was happy .  Eddy and Billy Tabeshaw leaned on their 
cant - hooks and looked at the doctor .  The doctor chewed the 
beard on his lower lip and looked at Dick Boulton .  Then he 
turned away and walked up the hill to the cottage .  They 
could see from his back how angry he was .  They all watched 
him walk up the hill and go inside the cottage .  

Dick said something in Ojibway .  Eddy laughed but Billy 
Tabeshaw looked very serious .  He did not understand Eng -  
lish but he had sweat all the time the row was going on .  He 
was fat with only a few hairs of moustache like a Chinaman .  
He picked up the two cant - hooks .  Dick picked up the axes 
and Eddy took the saw down from the tree .  They started off 
and walked up past the cottage and out the back gate into the 
woods .  Dick left the gate open .  Billy Tabeshaw went back 
and fastened it .  They were gone through the woods .  

In the cottage the doctor ,  sitting on the bed in his room ,  



THE DOCTOR AND THE DOCTORS WIFE 103 

saw a pile of medical journals on the floor by the bureau .  
They were still in their wrappers unopened .  It irritated him .  

Arent you going back to work ,  dear ?  asked the doctors 
wife from the room where she was lying with the blinds 
drawn .  

No! 

Was anything the matter ?  

I had a row with Dick Boulton .  

Oh /  said his wife .  I hope you didnt lose your temper ,  
Henry .  

No ,  said the doctor .  

jjthat he who ruleth his spirit is greater than 
taketh ,  a city ,  said his wife .  She was a Christian 
Scientist .  Her Bible ,  her copy of Science and Health and her 
Quarterly were on a table beside her bed in the darkened 
room .  

Her husband did not answer .  He was sitting on his bed 
now ,  cleaning a shotgun .  He pushed the magazine full of 
the heavy yellow shells and pumped them out again .  They 
were scattered on the bed .  

Henry ,  his wife called .  Then paused a moment .  Henry! 

Yes ,  the doctor said .  

You didnt say anything to Boulton to anger him ,  did you ?  

No ,  said the doctor .  

What was the trouble about ,  dear ?  

Nothing much .  

Tell me ,  Henry .  Please dont try and keep anything from 
me .  What was the trouble about ?  

Well ,  Dick owes me a lot of money for pulling his squaw 
through pneumonia and I guess he wanted a row so he 
wouldnt have to take it out in work .  

His wife was silent .  The doctor wiped his gun carefully 
with a rag .  He pushed the shells back in against the spring 
of the magazine .  He sat with the gun on his knees .  He was 
very fond of it .  Then he heard his wifes voice from the 
darkened room .  



104 THE DOCTOR AND THE DOCTORS WIFE 

Dear ,  I dont think ,  I really dont think that anyone 
would really do a thing like that .  

No ?  the doctor said .  

No .  I cant really believe that anyone would do a thing 
of that sort intentionally .  

The doctor stood up and put the shotgun in the corner 
behind the dresser .  

Are you going out ,  dear ?  his wife said .  

I think Ill go for a walk ,  3 the doctor said .  

If you see Nick ,  dear ,  will you tell him his mother wants 
to see him ?  his wife said .  

The doctor went out on the porch .  The screen door 
slammed behind him .  He heard his wife catch her breath 
when the door slammed .  

Sorry ,  he said ,  outside her window with the blinds 
drawn .  

Its all right ,  dear ,  she said .  

He walked in the heat out the gate and along the path into 
the hemlock woods .  It was cool in the woods even on such a 
hot day .  He found Nick sitting with his back against a tree ,  
reading .  

Your mother wants you to come and see her ,  the doctor 
said .  

I want to go with you ,  Nick said .  

His father looked down at him .  

All right .  Come on ,  then ,  his father said .  Give me .  the 
book ,  Ill put it in my pocket .  

I know where theres black squirrels ,  Daddy ,  Nick said .  

All right /  said his father .  Lets go there .  



We were in a garden at Mons .  Young Buckley came in with his patrol 
from across the river .  The first German I saw climbed up over the 
garden wall .  We waited till he got one leg over and then potted him .  
He had so much equipment on and looked awfully surprised andfeil 
down into the garden .  Then three more came over farther down the 
wall .  We shot* them .  They all came just like that .  



THE END OF SOMETHING 

IN the old days Hortons Bay was a lumbering town .  No one 
who lived in it was out of sound of the big saws in the mill by 
the lake .  Then one year there were no more logs to make 
lumber .  The lumber schooners came into the bay and were 
loaded with the cut of the mill that stood stacked in the yard .  
All the piles of lumber were carried away .  The big mill 
building had all its machinery that was removable taken out 
and hoisted on board one of the schooners by the men who 
had worked in the mill .  The schooner moved out of the bay 
toward the open lake carrying the two great saws ,  the travel -  
ling carriage that hurled the logs against the revolving ,  
circular saws ,  and all the rollers ,  wheels ,  belts and iron piled 
on a hull - deep load of lumber .  Its open hold covered with 
canvas and lashed tight ,  the sails of the schooner filled and 
it moved out into the open lake ,  carrying with it everything 
that had made the mill a mill and Hortons Bay a town .  

The one - story bunk houses ,  the eating - house ,  the company 
store ,  the mill offices ,  and the big mill itself stood deserted in 
the acres of sawdust that covered the swampy meadow by 
the shore of the bay .  

Ten years later there was nothing of the mill left except 
the broken white limestone of its foundations showing through 
the swampy second growth as Nick and Marjorie rowed 
along the shore .  They were trolling along the edge of the 
channel bank where the bottom dropped off suddenly from 



io6 THE END OF SOMETHING 

sandy shallows to twelve feet of dark water .  They were trolling 
on their way to the point to set night lines for rainbow trout .  

Theres our old ruin ,  Nick ,  Marjorie said .  

Nick ,  rowing ,  looked at the white stone in the green trees .  

There it is ,  he said .  

Can you remember when it was a mill ?  Marjorie asked .  

I can just remember ,  Nick said .  

It seems more like a castle ,  Marjorie said .  

Nick said nothing .  They rowed on out of sight of the mill ,  
following the shore line .  Then Nick cut across the bay .  

They arent striking ,  he said .  

No ,  Marjorie said .  She was intent on the rod all the time 
they trolled ,  even when she talked .  She loved to fish .  She 
loved to fish with Nick .  

Close beside the boat a big trout broke the surface of the 
water .  Nick pulled hard on one oar so the boat would turn 
and the bait spinning far behind would pass where the trout 
was feeding .  As the trouts back came up out of the water the 
minnows jumped wildly .  They sprinkled the surface like a 
handful of shot thrown into the water .  Another trout broke 
water ,  feeding on the other side of the boat .  

Theyre feeding ,  Marjorie said .  

But they wont strike ,  Nick said .  

He rowed the boat around to troll past both the feeding 
fish ,  then headed it for the point .  Marjorie did not reel in 
until the boat touched the shore .  

They pulled the boat up the beach and Nick lifted out a 
pail of live perch .  The perch swam in the water in the pail .  
Nick caught three of them with his hands and cut their heads 
off and skinned them while Marjorie chased with her hands 
in the bucket ,  finally caught a perch ,  cut its head off and 
skinned it .  Nick looked at her fish .  

You dont want to take the ventral fin out ,  he said .  Til 
be all right for bait but its better with the ventral fin in .  

He hooked each of the skinned perch through the tail .  
There were two hooks attached to a leader on each rod .  



THE END OF SOMETHING 107 

Then Marjorie rowed the boat out over the channel - bank ,  
holding the line in her teeth ,  and looking toward Nick ,  who 
stood on the shore holding the rod and letting the line run 
out from the reel .  

Thats about right ,  he called .  

Should I let it drop ?  Marjorie called back ,  holding the 
line in her hand .  

Sure .  Let it go .  Marjorie dropped the line overboard and 
watched the baits go down through the water .  

She came in with the boat and ran the second line out the 
same way .  Each time Nick set a heavy slab of driftwood 
across the butt of the rod to hold it solid and propped it up 
at an angle with a small slab .  He reeled in the slack line so 
the line ran taut out to where the bait rested on the sandy 
floor of the channel and set the click on the reel .  When a 
trout ,  feeding on the bottom ,  took the bait it would run with 
it ,  taking line out of the reel in a rush and making the reel 
sing with the click on .  

Marjorie rowed up the point a little way so she would not 
disturb the line .  She pulled hard on the oars and the boat 
went way up the beach .  Little waves came in with it .  Mar -  
jorie stepped out of the boat and Nick pulled the boat high 
up the beach .  

Whats the matter ,  Nick ?  Marjorie asked .  

I dont know ,  5 Nick said ,  getting wood for a fire .  

They made a fire with driftwood .  Marjorie went to the 
boat and brought a blanket .  The evening breeze blew the 
smoke toward the point ,  so Marjorie spread the blanket out 
between the fire and the lake .  

Marjorie sat on the blanket with her back to the fire and 
waited for Nkk .  He came over and sat down beside her on 
the blanket .  In back of them was the close second - growth 
timber of the point and in front was the bay with the mouth 
of Hortons Creek .  It was not quite dark .  The fire - light went 
as far as the water .  They could both see the two steel rods 
at an angle over the dark water .  The fire glinted on the reels .  



io8 THE END OF SOMETHING 

Marjorie unpacked the basket of supper .  

I dont feel like eating ,  said Nick .  

Come on and eat ,  Nick .  

All right .  

They ate without talking ,  and watched the two rods and 
the fire - light in the water .  

Theres going to be a moon to - night ,  said Nick .  He looked 
across the bay to the hills that were beginning to sharpen 
against the sky .  Beyond the hills he knew the moon was 
coming up .  

I know it ,  Marjorie said happily .  

You know everything ,  Nick said .  

Oh ,  Nick ,  please cut it out! Please ,  please dont be that 
way! 

I cant help it ,  Nick said .  You do .  You know every -  
thing .  Thats the trouble .  You know you do .  

Marjorie did not say anything .  

Ive taught you everything .  You know you do .  What 
dont you know ,  anyway ?  

Oh ,  shut up /  Marjorie said .  There comes the moon .  

They sat on the blanket without touching each other and 
watched the moon rise .  

You dont have to talk silly /  Marjorie said .  Whats really 
the matter ?  

I dont know .  

Of course you know .  

No ,  I dont .  

*Go on and say it .  

Nick looked on at the moon ,  coming up over the hills .  

It isnt fun any more .  

He was afraid to look at Marjorie .  Then he looked at her .  
She sat there with her back toward him .  He looked at her 
back .  It isnt fun any more .  Not any of it .  

She didnt say anything .  He went on .  I feel as though 
everything was gone to hell inside of me .  I dont know ,  
Marge .  I dont know what to say .  



THE END OF SOMETHING 109 

He looked on at her back .  

Isnt love any fun ?  Marjorie said .  

No ,  Nick said .  Marjorie stood up .  Nick sat there ,  his 
head in his hands .  

Im going to take the boat ,  Marjorie called to him .  You 
can walk back around the point .  

All right ,  Nick said .  Til push the boat off for you .  

You dont need to ,  she said .  She was afloat in the boat on 
the water with the moonlight on it .  Nick went back and lay 
down with his face in the blanket by the fire .  He could hear 
Marjorie rowing on the water .  

He lay there for a long time .  He lay there while he heard 
Bill come into the clearing walking around through the 
woods .  He felt Bill coming up to the fire .  Bill didnt touch 
him ,  either .  

Did she go all right ?  Bill said .  

Yes ,  Nick said ,  lying ,  his face on the blanket .  

Have a scene ?  

No ,  there wasnt any scene .  

How do you feel ?  

Oh ,  go away ,  Bill! Go away for a while .  

Bill selected a sandwich from the lunch basket and walked 
over to have a look at the rods .  



 /  /  was a frightfully hot day .  Wed jammed an absolutely perfect barri -  
cade across the bridge .  It was simply priceless .  A big old wrought -  
iron grating from the front of a house .  Too heavy to lift and you could 
shot through it and they would have to climb over it .  It was abso -  
lutely topping .  They tried to get over it ,  and we potted them from 
forty yards .  They rushed it ,  and officers came out alone and worked 
on it .  It was an absolutely perfect obstacle .  Their officers were very 
jine .  We were frightfully put out when we heard the flank had gone ,  
and we had to fall back .  



THE THREE - DAY BLOW 

THE rain stopped as Nick turned into the road that went up 
through the orchard .  The fruit had been picked and the fall 
wind blew through the bare trees .  Nick stopped and picked 
up a Wagner apple from beside the road ,  shiny in the brown 
grass from the rain .  He put the apple in the pocket of his 
Mackinaw coat .  

The road came out of the orchard on to the top of the hill .  
There was the cottage ,  the porch bare ,  smoke coming from the 
chimney .  In back was the garage ,  the chicken coop and the 
second - growth timber like a hedge against the woods behind .  
The big trees swayed far over in the wind as he watched .  It 
was the first of the autumn storms .  

As Nick crossed the open field above the orchard the door 
of the cottage opened and Bill came out .  He stood on the 
porch looking out .  

Well ,  Wemedge ?  he said .  

Hey ,  Bill ,  Nick said ,  coming up the steps .  

They stood together ,  looking out across the country ,  down 
over the orchard ,  beyond the road ,  across the lower fields and 
the woods of the point to the lake .  The wind was blowing 
straight down the lake .  They could see the surf along Ten 
Mile point .  

Shes blowing ,  Nick said .  



no 



THE THREE - DAY BLOW m 

Shell blow like that for three days ,  Bill said .  

Is your dad in ?  Nick said .  

No .  Hes out with the gun .  Come on in .  

Nick went inside the cottage .  There was a big fire in thp 
fireplace .  The wind made it roar .  Bill shut the door .  

Have a drink ?  he said .  

He went out to the kitchen and came back with two glasses 
and a pitcher of water .  Nick reached the whisky bottle from 
the shelf above the fireplace .  

All right ?  he said .  

Good ,  said Bill .  

They sat in front of the fire and drank the Irish whisky and 
water .  

Its got a swell ,  smoky taste ,  Nick said ,  and looked at the 
fire through the glass .  

Thats the peat ,  Bill said .  

You cant get peat into liquor ,  Nick said .  

That doesnt make any difference ,  Bill said .  

You ever seen any peat ?  Nick asked .  

No ,  said Bill .  

Neither have I ,  Nick said .  

His shoes ,  stretched out on the hearth ,  began to steam in 
front of the fire .  

Better take your shoes off ,  Bill said .  

I havent got any socks on .  

Take them off and dry them and Ill get you some ,  Bill 
said .  He went upstairs into the loft and Nick heard him 
walking about overhead .  Upstairs was open under the roof 
and was where Bill and his father and he ,  Nick ,  sometimes 
slept .  In back was a dressing room .  They moved the cots 
back out of the rain and covered them with rubber blankets .  

Bill came down with a pair of heavy wool socks .  

Its getting too late to go around without socks ,  he said .  

I hate to start them again ,  Nick said .  He pulled the socks 
on and slumped back in the chair ,  putting his feet up on the 
screen in front of the fire .  



ii2 THE THREE - DAY BLOW 

Youll dent in the screen /  Bill said .  Nick swung his feet 
over to the side of the fireplace .  

Got anything to read ?  he asked .  

Only the paper .  
 "  What did the Cards do ?  

Dropped a double header to the Giants .  

That ought to cinch it for them .  

Its a gift ,  Bill said .  As long as McGraw can buy every 
good ball player in the league theres nothing to it .  

He cant buy them all /  Nick said .  

He buys all the ones he wants /  Bill said .  Or he makes 
them discontented so they have to trade them to him .  

Like Heinie Zim /  Nick agreed .  

That bonehead will do him a lot of good .  

Bill stood up .  

He can hit /  Nick offered .  The heat from the fire was 
baking his legs .  

Hes a sweet fielder ,  too /  Bill said .  But he loses ball 
games .  

Maybe thats what McGraw wants him for /  Nick 
suggested .  

Maybe /  Bill agreed .  

Theres more always to it than we know about /  Nick said .  

Of course .  But weve got pretty good dope for being so 
far away .  

Like how much better you can pick them if you dont see 
the horses .  

Thats it .  

Bill reached down the whisky bottle .  His big hand went 
all the way around it .  He poured the whisky into the glass 
Nick held out .  

How much water ?  

Just the same .  

He sat down on the floor beside Nicks chair .  

Its good when the fall storms come ,  isnt it ?  Nick said .  

Its swell .  



THE THREE - DAY BLOW 113 .  

Its the best time of year ,  5 Nick said .  

Wouldnt it be hell to be in town ?  Bill said .  

Id like to see the World Series ,  Nick said .  

Well ,  theyre always in New York or Philadelphia now /  
Bill said .  That doesnt do us any good .  

I wonder if the Cards will ever win a pennant ?  

Not in our lifetime ,  Bill said .  

Gee ,  theyd go crazy ,  Nick said .  

Do you remember when they got going that once before 
they had the train wreck ?  

Boy! Nick said ,  remembering .  

Bill reached over to the table under the window for the 
book that lay there ,  face down ,  where he had put it when he 
went to the door .  He held his glass in one hand and the book 
in the other ,  leaning back against Nicks chair .  

What are you reading ?  

Richard Fever el 

I couldnt get into it .  

Its all right ,  Bill said .  It aint a bad book ,  Wemedge .  

What else have you got I havent read ?  Nick asked .  

Did you read the Forest Lovers ?  

Yup .  Thats the one where they go to bed every night 
with the naked sword between them .  

Thats a good book ,  Wemedge .  

Its a swell book .  What I couldnt ever understand was 
what good the sword would do .  It would have to stay edge 
up all the time because if it went over flat you could roll right 
over it and it wouldnt make any trouble .  

Its a symbol ,  Bill said .  

Sure ,  said Nick ,  but it isnt practical .  

Did you ever read Fortitude ?  

Its fine ,  Nick said .  Thats a real book .  Thats where his 
old man is after him all the time .  Have you got any more by 
Walpole ?   ,  

The Dark Forest ,  Bill said .  Its about Russia .  

What does he know about Russia ?  Nick asked .  

H 



ii 4 THE THREE - DAY BLOW 

I dont know .  You cant ever tell about those guys .  
Maybe he was there when he was a boy .  Hes got a lot of 
dope on it .  

Td like to meet him ,  Nick said .  

Id like to meet Chesterton ,  Bill said .  

I wist he was here now ,  Nick said .  Wed take him fishing 
to the Voix to - morrow .  

I wonder if hed like to go fishing ,  Bill said .  

Sure /  said Nick .  He must be about the best guy there is .  
Do you remember the Flying Inn ?  

If an angel out of heaven 
Gives you something else to drink ,  
Thank him for his kind intentions ;  
Go and pour them down the sink! 

Thats right ,  said Nick .  I guess hes a better guy than 
Walpole .  

Oh ,  hes a better guy ,  all right ,  Bill said .  

But Walpoles a better writer .  

I dont know ,  Nick said .  Chestertons a classic .  

* Walpoles a classic ,  too ,  Bill insisted .  

I wish we had them both here ,  Nick said .  Wed take 
them both fishing to the Voix to - morrow .  

Lets get drunk ,  Bill said .  

All right ,  Nick agreed .  

My old man wont care ,  Bill said .  

Are you sure ?  said Nick .  

I know it ,  Bill said .  

Im a little drunk now ,  Nick said .  

You arent drunk ,  Bill said .  

He got up from the floor and reached for the whisky bottle .  
Nick held out his glass .  His eyes fixed on it while Bill poured .  

Bill poured the glass half full of whisky .  

Put in your own water ,  he said .  Theres just one more 
shot .  

Got any more ?  Nick asked .  



THE THREE - DAY BLOW 115 

Theres plenty more but dad only likes me to drink whats 
open .  5 

Sure ,  5 said Nick .  

He says opening bottles is what makes drunkards ,  5 Bili 
explained .  

Thats right ,  5 said Nick .  He was impressed .  He had never 
thought of that before .  He had always thought it was solitary 
drinking that made drunkards .  

How is your dad ?  5 he asked respectfully .  

Hes all right ,  Bill said .  He gets a little wild sometimes .  

Hes a swell guy ,  Nick said .  He poured water into his 
glass out of the pitcher .  It mixed slowly with the whisky .  
There was more whisky than water .  

You bet your life he is ,  Bill said .  

My old mans all right ,  Nick said .  

Youre damn right he is ,  said Bill .  

He claims hes never taken a drink in his life ,  Nick said ,  as 
though announcing a scientific fact .  

Well ,  hes a doctor .  My old mans a painter .  Thats 
different .  

Hes missed a lot ,  Nick said sadly .  

You cant tell ,  Bill said .  Everythings got its compensa -  
tions .  

He says hes missed a lot himself ,  5 Nick confessed .  

Well ,  dads had a tough time ,  Bill said .  

It all evens up ,  5 Nick said .  

They sat looking into the fire and thinking of this profound 
truth .  

Til get a chunk from the back porch ,  5 Nick said .  He had 
noticed while looking into the fire that the fire was dying 
down .  Also he wished to show he could hold his liquor and 
be practical .  Even if his father had never touched a drop 
Bill was not going to get him drunk before he himself was 
drunk .  

Bring one of the big beech chunks ,  3 Bill said .  He was also 
being consciously practical .  



n6 THE THREE - DAY BLOW 

Nick came in with the log through the kitchen and in 
passing knocked a pan off the kitchen table .  He laid the log 
down and picked up the pan .  It had contained dried apricots ,  
c oaking in water .  He carefully picked up all the apricots off 
the floor ,  some of them had gone under the stove ,  and put 
them back in the pan .  He dipped some more water on to 
them from the pail by the table .  He felt quite proud of 
himself .  He had been thoroughly practical .  

He came in carrying the log and Bill got up from the chair 
and helped him put it on the fire .  

Thats a swell log ,  5 Nick said .  

Td been saving it for the bad weather ,  Bill said .  A log 
like that will burn all night .  

Therell be coals left to start the fire in the morning ,  Nick 
said .  

Thats right ,  Bill agreed .  They were conducting the 
conversation on a high plane .  

Lets have another drink ,  Nick said .  

I think theres another bottle open in the locker ,  Bill said .  

He kneeled down in the corner in front of the locker and 
brought out a square - faced bottle .  

Its Scotch ,  he said .  

Til get some more water ,  Nick said .  He went out into 
the kitchen again .  He filled the pitcher with the dipper ,  
dipping cold spring water from the pail .  On his way back 
to the living room he passed a mirror in the dining room and 
looked in it .  His face looked strange .  He smiled at the face 
in the mirror and it grinned back at him .  He winked at it 
and went on .  It was not his face but it didnt make any 
difference .  

Bill had poured out the drinks .  

Thats an awfully big shot ,  Nick said .  

Not for us ,  Wemedge ,  Bill said .  

Whatll we drink to ?  Nick asked ,  holding up the glass .  

Lets drink to fishing ,  Bill said .  

All right ,  Nick said .  Gentlemen ,  I give you fishing /  



THE THREE - DAY BLOW 117 

All fishing ,  Bill said .  Everywhere .  

Fishing ,  Nick said .  Thats what we drink to .  

Its better than baseball ,  Bill said .  

There isnt any comparison ,  said Nick .  How did we eve* 
get talking about baseball ?  

It was a mistake ,  Bill said .  Baseball is a game for louts .  

They drank all that was in their glasses .  

Now lets drink to Chesterton .  

And Walpole ,  Nick interposed .  

Nick poured out the liquor .  Bill poured in the water .  
They looked at each other .  They felt very fine .  

Gentlemen ,  Bill said ,  I give you Chesterton and Walpole .  

Exactly ,  gentlemen ,  Nick said .  

They drank .  Bill filled up the glasses .  They sat down in 
the big chairs in front of the fire .  

You were very wise ,  Wemedge ,  Bill said .  

What do you mean ?  asked Nick .  

To bust off that Marge business ,  Bill said .  

T guess so ,  said Nick .  

It was the only thing to do .  If you hadnt ,  by now youd be 
back home working trying to get enough money to get married  .   

Nick said nothing .  

Once a mans married hes absolutely bitched ,  Bill went 
on .  He hasnt got anything more .  Nothing .  Not a damn 
thing .  Hes done for .  Youve seen the guys that get married .  

Nick said nothing .  

You can tell them /  Bill said .  They get this sort of fat 
married look .  Theyre done for .  

Sure ,  said Nick .  

It was probably bad busting it off ,  Bill said .  But you 
always fall for somebody else and then its all right .  Fall 
for them but dont let them ruin you .  

Yes ,  said Nick .  

If youd have married her you would have had to marry 
the whole family .  Remember her mother and that guy she 
married  



n8 THE THREE - DAY BLOW 

Nick nodded .  

Imagine having them around the house all the time and 
going to Sunday dinners at their house ,  and having them 
9ver to dinner and her telling Marge all the time what to 
do and how to act .  

Nick sat quiet .  

You came out of it damned well /  Bill said .  Now she can 
marry somebody of her own sort and settle down and be 
happy .  You cant mix oil and water and you cant mix that 
sort of thing any more than if Id marry Ida that works for 
Strattons .  Shed probably like it ,  too .  

Nick said nothing .  The liquor had all died out of him and 
left him alone .  Bill wasnt there .  He wasnt sitting in front 
of the fire or going fishing to - morrow with Bill and his dad 
or anything .  He wasnt drunk .  It was all gone .  All he knew 
was that he had once had Marjorie and that he had lost her .  
She was gone and he had sent her away .  That was all that 
mattered .  He might never see her again .  Probably he never 
would .  It was all gone ,  finished .  

Lets have another drink ,  Nick said .  

Bill poured it out .  Nick splashed in a little water .  

If youd gone on that way we wouldnt be here now ,  
Bill said .  

That was true .  His original plan had been to go down 
home and get a job .  Then he had planned to stay in Charle -  
voix all winter so he could be near Marge .  Now he did not 
know what he was going to do .  

Probably we wouldnt even be going fishing to - morrow ,  
Bill said .  You had the right dope ,  all right .  

I couldnt help it ,  Nick said .  

I know .  Thats the way it works out ,  Bill said .  

All of a sudden everything was over ,  Nick said .  I dont 
know why it was .  I couldnt help it .  Just like when the 
three - day blows come now and rip all the leaves off the 
trees .  

Well ,  its over .  Thats the point ,  Bill said .  



THE THREE - DAY BLOW n^ 

It was my fault /  Nick said .  

It doesnt make any difference whose fault it was /  Bill 
said .  

No ,  I suppose not /  Nick said .  

The big thing was that Marjorie was gone and that pro -  
bably he would never see her again .  He had talked to her 
about how they would go to Italy together and the fun they 
would have .  Places they would be together .  It was all gone 
now .  

So long as its over thats all that matters /  Bill said .  I tell 
you ,  Wemedge ,  I was worried while it was going on .  You 
played it right .  I understand her mother is sore as hell .  
She told a lot of people you were engaged .  

We werent engaged /  Nick said .  

It was all around that you were .  

I cant help it /  Nick said .  We werent .  

Werent you going to get married ?  Bill asked .  

Yes .  But we werent engaged /  Nick said .  

Whats the difference ?  Bill asked judicially .  

I dont know .  Theres a difference .  

I dont see it /  said Bill .  

All right /  said Nick .  Lets get drunk .  

All right /  Bill said .  Lets get really drunk .  

Lets get drunk and then go swimming /  Nick said .  

He drank off his glass .  

Tm as sorry as hell about her but what could I do ?  he 
said .  You know what her mother was like! 

She was terrible /  Bill said .  

All of a sudden it was over /  Nick said .  I oughtnt to talk 
about it .  

You arent /  Bill said .  I talked about it and now Im 
through .  We wont ever speak about it again .  You dont 
want to think about it .  You might get back into it again .  

Nick had not thought about that .  It had seemed so 
absolute .  That was a thought .  That made him feel better ,  

Sure /  he said .  Theres always that danger .  



120 THE THREE - DAY BLOW 

He felt happy now .  There was not anything that was 
irrevocable .  He might go into town Saturday night .  To -  
day was Thursday .  

Theres always a chance /  he said .  

Youll have to watch yourself /  Bill said .  

Til watch myself /  he said .  

He felt happy .  Nothing was finished .  Nothing was ever 
lost .  He would go into town on Saturday .  He felt lighter ,  
as he had felt before Bill started to talk about it .  There was 
always a way out .  

Lets take the guns and go down to the point and look for 
your dad /  Nick said .  

All right .  

Bill took down the two shotguns from the rack on the wall .  
He opened a box of shells .  Nick put on his Mackinaw coat 
and his shoes .  His shoes were stiff from the drying .  He was 
still quite drunk but his head was clear .  

How do you feel ?  Nick asked .  

Swell .  Ive just got a good edge on .  Bill was buttoning up 
his sweater .  

Theres no use getting drunk .  

No .  We ought to get outdoors .  

They stepped out the door .  The wind was blowing a gale .  

The birds will lie right down in the grass with this /  Nick 
said .  

They struck down toward the orchard .  

I saw a woodcock this morning /  Bill said .  

Maybe well jump him /  Nick said .  

You cant shoot in this wind /  Bill said .  

Outside now the Marge business was no longer so tragic .  
It was not even very important .  The wind blew everything 
like that away .  

Its coming right off the big lake /  Nick said .  

Against the wind they heard the thud of a shotgun .  

Thats dad /  Bill said .  Hes down in the swamp .  

Lets cut down that way /  Nick said .  



THE THREE - DAY BLOW 121 

Lets cut across the lower meadow and see if we jump 
anything /  Bill said .  

All right ,  Nick said .  

None of it was important now .  The wind blew it out of hij 
head .  Still he could always go into town Saturday night .  
It was a good thing to have in reserve .  



They shot the six cabinet ministers at half - past six in the morning 
against the wall of a hospital .  There were pools of water in the 
courtyard .  There were wet dead leaves on the paving of the courtyard .  
ft rained hard .  All the shutters of the hospital were nailed shut .  
One of the ministers was sick with typhoid .  Two soldiers carried 
him downstairs and out into the rain .  They tried to hold him up 
against the wall but he sat down in a puddle of water .  The other 
Jive stood very quietly against the wall .  Finally the officer told the 
soldiers it was no good trying to make him stand up .  When they fired 
the first volley he was sitting down in the water with his head on his 
knees .  



THE BATTLER 

NICK stood up .  He was all right .  He looked up the track at 
the lights of the caboose going out of sight around the curve .  
There was water on both sides of the track ,  then tamarack 
swamp .  

He felt of his knee .  The pants were torn and the skin was 
barked .  His hands were scraped and there were sand and 
cinders driven up under his nails .  He went over to the edge 
of the track down the little slope to the water and washed 
his hands .  He washed them carefully in the cold water ,  
getting the dirt out from the nails .  He squatted down and 
bathed his knee .  

That lousy crut of a brakeman .  He would get him some 
day .  He would know him again .  That was a fine way to act .  

Come here ,  kid ,  he said .  I got something for you .  

He had fallen for it .  What a lousy kid thing to have done .  

They would never suck him in that way again .  

Come here ,  kid ,  I got something for you .  Then wham 
and he lit on his hands and knees beside the track .  

Nick rubbed his eye .  There was a big bump coming up .  

122 



THE BATTLER 123 

He would have a black eye ,  all right .  It ached already .  
That son of a crutting brakeman .  

He touched the bump over his eye with his fingers .  Oh ,  
well ,  it was only a black eye .  That was all he had gotten oirt 
of it .  Cheap at the price .  He wished he could see it .  Could 
not see it looking into the water ,  though .  It was dark and he 
was a long way off from anywhere .  He wiped his hands on 
his trousers and stood up ,  then climbed the embankment to 
the rails .  

He started up the track .  It was well ballasted and made 
easy walking ,  sand and gravel packed between the ties ,  solid 
walking .  The smooth roadbed like a -  causeway went on 
ahead through the swamp .  Nick walked along .  He must get 
to somewhere .  

Nick had swung on to the freight train when it slowed 
down for the yards outside of Walton Junction .  The train ,  
with Nick on it ,  had passed through Kalkaska as it started 
to get dark .  Now he must be nearly to Mancelona .  Three or 
four miles of swamp .  He stepped along the track ,  walking 
so he kept on the ballast between the ties ,  the swamp ghostly 
in the rising mist .  His eye ached and he was hungry .  He 
kept on hiking ,  putting the miles of track back of him .  The 
swamp was all the same on both sides of the track .  

Ahead there was a bridge .  Nick crossed it ,  his boots 
ringing hollow on the iron .  Down below the water showed 
black between the slits of ties .  Nick kicked a loose spike and 
it dropped into the water .  Beyond the bridge were hills .  
It was high and dark on both sides of the track .  Up the track 
Nick saw a fire .  

He came up the track toward the fire carefully .  It was off 
to one side of the track ,  below the railway embankment .  He 
had only seen the light from it .  The track came out through 
a cut and where the fire was burning the country opened out 
and fell away into woods .  Nick dropped carefully down the 
embankment and cut into the woods to come up to the fire 
through the trees .  It was a beechwood forest and the fallen 



i2 4 THE BATTLER 

beechnut burrs were under his shoes as he walked between 
the trees .  The fire was bright now ,  just at the edge of the 
trees .  There was a man sitting by it .  Nick waited behind 
the tree and watched .  The man looked to be alone .  He was 
sitting there with his head in his hands looking at the fire .  
Nick stepped out and walked into the firelight .  

The man sat there looking into the fire .  When Nick 
stopped quite close to him he did not move .  

Hello! Nick said .  

The man looked up .  

Where did you get the shiner ?  5 he said .  

A brakeman busted me .  

Off the through freight ?  

Yes .  

I saw the bastard ,  the man said .  He went through here 
bout an hour and a half ago .  He was walking along the top 
of the cars slapping his arms and singing .  

The bastard! 

It must have made him feel good to bust you ,  the man said 
seriously .  

Til bust him .  5 

Get him with a rock sometime when hes going through ,  
the man advised .  

Til get him .  

Youre a tough one ,  arent you ?  

No ,  Nick answered .  

All you kids are tough .  

You got to be tough ,  Nick said .  

Thats what I said .  

The man looked at Nick and smiled .  In the firelight Nick 
saw that his face was misshapen .  His nose was sunken ,  his 
eyes were slits ,  he had queer - shaped lips .  Nick did not per -  
ceive all this at once ,  he only saw the mans face was queerly 
formed and mutilated .  It was like putty in colour .  Dead 
looking in the firelight .  

Dont you like my pan ?  the man asked .  



THE BATTLER 125 

Nick was embarrassed .  

Sure /  he said .  

Look here! the man took off his cap .  

He had only one eai .  It was thickened and tight againrt 
the side of his head .  Where the other ear should h%ve been 
there was a stump .  

Ever see one like that ?  

No /  said Nick .  It made him a little sick .  

I could take it /  the man said .  Dont you think I could 
take it ,  kid ?  

You bet! 

They all bust their hands on me /  the little man said 
They couldnt hurt me .  

He looked at Nick .  Sit down /  he said .  Want to eat ?  

Dont bother /  Nick said .  Tm going on to the town .  

Listen! the man said .  Gall me Ad .  

Sure! 

Listen /  the little man said .  Tm not quite right .  

Whats the matter ?  

Im crazy .  

He put on his cap .  Nick felt like laughing .  

Youre all right /  he said .  

No ,  Im not .  Im crazy .  Listen ,  you ever been crazy ?  

No /  Nick said .  How does it get you ?  

I dont know /  Ad said .  When you got it you dont know 
about it .  You know me ,  dont you ?  

No .  

Tm Ad Francis .  

Honest to God ?  

Dont you believe it ?  

Yes .  

Nick knew it must be true .  

You know how I beat them ?  

No /  Nick said .  

My hearts slow .  It only beats forty a minute .  Feel it /  

Nick hesitated .  



126 THE BATTLER 

Come on ,  the man took hold of his hand .  Take hold of 
my wrist .  Put your fingers there .  

The little mans wrist was thick and the muscles bulged 
* ? bove the bone .  Nick felt the slow pumping under his fingers .  

Got # watch ?  

No .  

Neither have I ,  Ad said .  It aint any good if you havent 
got a watch .  

Nick dropped his wrist .  

Listen ,  Ad Francis said .  Take ahold again .  You count 
and Ill count up to sixty .  

Feeling the slow hard throb under his fingers Nick started 
to count .  He heard the little man counting slowly ,  one ,  two ,  
three ,  four ,  five ,  and on aloud .  

Sixty ,  Ad finished .  Thats a minute .  What did you 
make it ?  

Forty ,  Nick said .  

Thats right ,  Ad said happily .  She never speeds up .  

A man dropped down the railroad embankment and came 
across the clearing to the fire .  

Hello ,  Bugs! Ad said .  

Hello! Bugs answered .  It was a negros voice .  Nick 
knew from the way he walked that he was a negro .  He 
stood with his back to them ,  bending over the fire .  He 
straightened up .  

This is my pal Bugs ,  Ad said .  Hes crazy ,  too .  

Glad to meet you ,  Bugs said .  Where you say youre 
from ?  

Chicago ,  Nick said .  

Thats a fine town ,  the negro said .  I didnt catch your 
name .  

 " Adams .  Nick Adams .  

He says hes never been crazy .  Bugs ,  Ad said .  

Hes got a lot coming to him /  the negro said .  He was 
unwrapping a package by the fire .  

When are we going to eat ,  Bugs ?  the prizefighter asked .  



THE BATTLER 127 

 Right away .  

Are you hungry ,  Nick ?  

Hungry as hell .  

Hear that ,  Bugs ?  

I hear most of what goes on .  

That aint What I asked you .  

Yes .  I heard what the gentleman said .  

Into a skillet he was laying slices of ham .  As the skillet 
grew hot the grease sputtered and Bugs ,  crouching on long 
nigger legs over the fire ,  turned the ham and broke eggs into 
the skillet ,  tipping it from side to side to baste the eggs with 
the hot fat .  

Will you cut some bread out of that bag .  Mister Adams ?  
Bugs turned from the fire .  

Sure .  

Nick reached in the bag and brought out a loaf of bread .  
He cut six slices .  Ad watched him and leaned forward .  

Let me take your knife ,  Nick ,  he said .  

No ,  you dont ,  the negro said .  Hang on to your knife ,  
Mister Adams .  

The prizefighter sat back .  

Will you bring me the bread ,  Mister Adams ?  Bugs asked .  
Nick brought it over .  

Do you like to dip your bread in the ham fat ?  the negro 
asked .  

You bet! 

Perhaps wed better wait until later .  Its better at the 
finish of the meal .  Here .  

The negro picked up a slice of ham and laid it on one of the 
pieces of bread ,  then slid an egg on top of it .  

Just close that sandwich ,  will you ,  please ,  and give it to 
Mister Francis .  

Ad took the sandwich and started eating .  

Watch out how that egg runs /  the negro warned .  This is 
for you ,  Mister Adams .  The remainder for myself .  5 

Nick bit into the sandwich .  The negro was sitting opposite 



iz8 THE BATTLER 

him beside Ad .  The hot fried ham and eggs tasted 
wonderful .  

Mister Adams is right hungry ,  the negro said .  The little 
coian whom Nick knew by name as a former champion fighter 
was silent .  He had said nothing since the negro had spoken 
about the knife .  

May I offer you a slice of bread dipped right in the hot 
ham fat ?  Bugs said .  

Thanks a lot .  

The little white man looked at Nick .  

Will you have some ,  Mister Adolph Francis ?  Bugs offered 
from the skillet .  

Ad did not answer .  He was looking at Nick .  

Mister Francis ?  came the niggers soft voice .  

Ad did not answer .  He was looking at Nick .  

I spoke to you ,  Mister Francis ,  the nigger said softly .  

Ad kept on looking at Nick .  He had his cap down over his 
eyes .  Nick felt nervous .  

How the hell do you get that way ?  came out from under 
the cap sharply at Nick .  Who the hell do you think you are ?  
Youre a snotty bastard .  You come in here where nobody 
asks you and eat a mans food and when he asks to borrow a 
knife you get snotty .  

He glared at Nick ,  his face was white and his eyes almost 
out of sight under the cap .  

Youre a hot sketch .  Who the hell asked you to butt in 
here ?  

Nobody .  

Youre damn right nobody did .  Nobody asked you to stay 
either .  You come in here and act snotty about my face and 
smoke my cigars and drink my liquor and then talk snotty .  
Where the hell do you think you get off ?  

Nick said nothing .  Ad stood up .  

Til tell you ,  you yellow - livered Chicago bastard .  Youre 
going to get youi ;  can knocked off .  Do you get that ?  

Nick stepped back .  The little man came toward him 



THE BATTLER 129 

slowly ,  stepping flat - footed forward ,  his left foot stepping 
forward ,  his right dragging up to it .  

Hit me /  he moved his head .  Try and hit me .  

I dont want to hit you .  

You wont get out of it that way .  Youre going to take a 
beating ,  see ?  Come on and lead at me .  

Cut it out ,  Nick said .  

All right ,  then ,  you bastard .  

The little man looked down at Nieks feet .  As he looked 
down the negro ,  who had followed behind him as he moved 
away from the fire ,  set himself and tapped him across the 
base of the skull .  He fell forward and Bugs dropped the cloth -  
wrapped blackjack on the grass .  The little man lay there ,  
his face in the grass .  The negro picked him up ,  his head 
hanging ,  and carried him to the fire .  His face looked bad ,  
the eyes open .  Bugs laid him down gently .  

Will you bring me the water in the bucket ,  Mister Adams ?  
he said .  Im afraid I hit him just a little hard .  

The negro splashed water with his hand on the mans face 
and pulled his ear gently .  The eyes closed .  

Bugs stood up .  

Hes all right ,  he said .  Theres nothing to worry about .  
Im sorry ,  Mister Adams .  

Its all right .  Nick was looking down at the little man .  
He saw the blackjack on the grass and picked it up .  It had a 
flexible handle and was limber in his hand .  It was made of 
worn black leather with a handkerchief wrapped around the 
heavy end .  

Thats a whalebone handle ,  the negro smiled .  They 
dont make them any more .  I didnt know how well you 
could take care of yourself and ,  anyway ,  I didnt want you 
to hurt him or mark him up no more than he is .  

The negro smiled again .  

You hurt him yourself .  

I know how to do it .  He wont remember nothing of it .  I 
have to do it to change him when he gets that way .  



i 3 o THE BATTLER 

Nick was still looking down at the little man ,  lying ,  his eyes 
closed in the firelight .  Bugs put some wood on the fire .  

Dont you worry about him none .  Mister Adams .  I seen 
Mm like this plenty of times before .  

Whavmade him crazy ?  Nick asked .  

Oh ,  a lot of things ,  the negro answered from the fire .  
Would you like a cup of this coffee ,  Mister Adams ?  

He handed Nick the cup and smoothed the coat he had 
placed under the unconscious mans head .  

He took too many beatings ,  for one thing ,  the negro sipped 
the coffee .  But that just made him sort of simple .  Then his 
sister was his manager and they was always being written 
up in the papers all about brothers and sisters and how 
she loved her brother and how he loved his sister ,  and 
then they got married in New York and that made a lot of 
unpleasantness .  

I remember about it .  

Sure .  Of course they wasnt brother and sister no more 
than a rabbit ,  but there was a lot of people didnt like it 
either way and they commenced to have disagreements ,  and 
one day she just went off and never come back .  

He drank the coffee and wiped his lips with the pink palm 
of his hand .  

He just went crazy .  Will you have some more coffee ,  
Mister Adams ?  

Thanks .  

I seen her a couple of times ,  the negro went on .  She was 
an awful good - looking woman .  Looked enough like him to 
be twins .  He wouldnt be bad - looking without his face all 
busted .  

He stopped .  The story seemed to be over .  

6 Where did you meet him ?  asked Nick .  

I met him in jail ,  the negro said .  He was busting people 
all the time after she went away and they put him in jail .  I 
was in for cuttin a man .  

He smiled ,  and went on soft - voiced: 



THE BATTLER 131 

Right away I liked him and when I got out I looked him 
up .  He likes to think Im crazy and I dont mind .  I like to be 
with him and I like seeing the country and I dont have to 
commit no larceny to do it .  I like living like a gentleman .  

What do you all do ?  Nick asked .  

Oh ,  nothing .  Just move around .  Hes got money .  

He must have made a lot of money .  

Sure .  He spent all his money ,  though .  Or they took it 
away from him .  She sends him money .  

He poked up the fire .  

Shes a mighty fine woman ,  he said .  She looks enough 
like him to be his own twin .  

The negro looked over at the little man ,  lying breathing 
heavily .  His blond hair was down over his forehead .  His 
mutilated face looked childish in repose .  

I can wake him up any time now ,  Mister Adams .  If you 
dont mind I wish youd sort of pull out .  I dont like to not 
be hospitable ,  but it might disturb him back again to see you .  
I hate to have to thump him and its the only thing to do 
when he gets started .  I have to sort of keep him away from 
people .  You dont mind ,  do you ,  Mister Adams ?  No ,  dont 
thank me ,  Mister Adams .  Id have warned you about him 
but he seemed to have taken such a liking to you and I 
thought things were going to be all right .  Youll hit a town 
about two miles up the track .  Mancelona they call it .  Good -  
bye .  I wish we could ask you to stay the night but its just 
out of the question .  Would you like to take some of that ham 
and some bread with you ?  No ?  You better take a sandwich ,  
all this in a low ,  smooth ,  polite nigger voice .  

Good .  Well ,  good - bye ,  Mister Adams .  Good - bye and 
good luck! 

Nick walked away from the fire across the clearing to the 
railway tracks .  Out of the range of the fire he listened .  The 
low soft voice of the negro was talking .  Nick could not hear 
the words .  Then he heard the little man say ,  I got an awful 
headache ,  Bugs .  



132 THE BATTLER 

Youll feel better .  Mister Francis ,  the negros voice 
soothed .  Just you drink a cup of this hot coffee .  

Nick climbed the embankment and started up the track .  
He found he had a ham sandwich in his hand and put it in 
his pocket .  Looking back from the mounting grade before 
the track curved into the hills he could see the firelight in the 
clearing .  



Nick sat against the wall of the church where they had dragged him to 
be clear of machine - gun fire in the street .  Both legs stuck out awk -  
wardly .  He had been hit in the spine .  His face was sweaty and dirty .  
The sun shone on his face .  The day was very hot .  Rinaldi ,  big 
backed ,  his equipment sprawling ,  lay face downward against the wall .  
Nick looked straight ahead brilliantly .  The pink wall of the house 
opposite had fallen out from the roof ,  and an iron bedstead hung 
twisted toward the street .  Two Austrian dead lay in the rubble in the 
shade of the house .  Up the street were other dead .  Things were 
getting forward in the town .  It was going well .  Stretcher bearers 
would be along any time now .  Nick turned his head carefully and 
looked at Rinaldi .  Senta Rinaldi .  Senta .  You and me weve made 
a separate peace .  Rinaldi lay still in the sun breathing with difficulty .  
Not patriots Nick turned his head carefully away smiling sweatily .  
Rinaldi was a disappointing audience .  



A VERY SHORT STORY 

ONE hot evening in Padua they carried him up on to the roof 
and he could look out over the top of the town .  There were 
chimney swifts in the sky .  After a while it got dark and the 
searchlights came out .  The others went down and took the 
bottles with them .  He and Luz could hear them below on 
the balcony .  Luz sat on the bed .  She was cool and fresh in 
the hot night .  

Luz stayed on night duty for three months .  They were 
glad to let her .  When they operated on him she prepared 
him for the operating table ;  and they had a joke about friend 
or enema .  He went under the anaesthetic holding tight on to 
himself so he would not blab about anything during the silly ,  
talky time .  After he got on crutches he used to take the 
temperatures so Luz would not have to get up from the bed .  
There were only a few patients ,  and they all knew about it .  

133 



134 A VERY SHORT STORY 

They all liked Luz .  As he walked back along the halls he 
thought of Luz in his bed .  

Before he went back to the front they went into the Duomo 
and prayed .  It was dim and quiet ,  and there were other 
beople praying .  They wanted to get married ,  but there was 
not enOtigh time for the banns ,  and neither of {hem had birth 
certificates .  They felt as though they were married ,  but they 
wanted everyone to know about it ,  and to make it so they 
could not lose it .  

Luz wrote him many letters that he never got until after 
the armistice .  Fifteen came in a bunch to the front and he 
sorted them by the dates and read them all straight through .  
They were all about the hospital ,  and how much she loved 
him and how it was impossible to get along without him and 
how terrible it was missing him at night .  

After the armistice they agreed he should go home to get a 
job so they might be married .  Luz would not come home 
until he had a good job and could come to New York to meet 
her .  It was understood he would not drink ,  and he did not 
want to see his friends or anyone in the States .  Only to get 
a job and be married .  On the train from Padua to Milan 
they quarrelled about her not being willing to come home at 
once .  When they had to say good - bye ,  in the station at Milan ,  
they kissed good - bye ,  but were not finished with the quarrel .  
He felt sick about saying good - bye like that .  

He went to America on a boat from Genoa .  Luz went back 
to Pordonone to open a hospital .  It was lonely and rainy 
there and there was a battalion of arditi quartered in the 
town .  Living in the muddy ,  rainy town in the winter ,  the 
major of the battalion made love to Luz ,  and she had never 
known Italians before ,  and finally wrote to the States that 
theirs had been only a boy and girl affair .  She was sorry ,  
and she knew he would probably not be able to understand ,  
but might some day forgive her ,  and be grateful to her ,  and 
she expected ,  absolutely unexpectedly ,  to be married in the 
spring .  She loved him as always ,  but she realized now it was 



AVERYSHORTSTORY 135 

only a boy and girl love .  She hoped he would have a great 
career ,  and believed in him absolutely .  She knew it was for 
the best .  

The major did not marry her in the spring ,  or any other 
time .  Luz never got an answer to the letter to Chicago abou v 
it .  A short tinie after he contracted gonorrhoea froin a sales 
girl in a loop department store while riding in a taxicab 
through Lincoln Park .  



While the bombardment was knocking the trench to pieces at Fossalta ,  
he lay very fiat and sweated and prayed ohjesus christ get me out of 
here .  Dear jesus please get me out .  Christ please please please christ .  If 
youll only keep me from getting killed Pll do anything you say .  I 
believe injou and Pll tell everyone in the world that you are the only 
one that matters .  Please please dear jesus .  The shelling rnovedfarther up 
the line .  We went to work on the trench and in the morning the sun came 
up and the day was hot and muggy and cheerful and quiet .  The next 
night back at Mestre he did not tell the girl he went upstairs with at 
the Villa Rossa about Jesus .  And he never told anybody .  



SOLDIERS HOME 

KREBS went to the war from a Methodist college in Kansas .  
There is a picture which shows him among his fraternity 
brothers ,  all of them wearing exactly the same height and 
style collar .  He enlisted in the Marines in 1917 and did not 
return to the United States until the second division returned 
from the Rhine in the summer of 1919 .  

There is a picture which shows him on the Rhine with 
two German girls and another corporal .  Krebs and the cor -  
poral look too big for their uniforms .  The German girls are 
not beautiful .  The Rhine does not show in the picture .  

By the time Krebs returned to his home town in Oklahoma 
the greeting of heroes was over .  He came back much too late .  
The men from the town who had been drafted had all been 
welcomed elaborately on their return .  There had been a 
great deal of hysteria .  Now the reaction had set in .  People 
seemed to think it was rather ridiculous for Krebs to be 
getting back so late ,  years after the war was over .  

At first Krebs ,  t who had been at Belleau Wood ,  Soissons ,  the 
Champagne ,  St .  Mihiel and in the Argonne ,  did not want to 
talk about the war at all .  Later he felt the need to talk but no 

136 



SOLDIERS HOME 137 

one wanted to hear about it .  His town had heard too many 
atrocity stories to be thrilled by actualities .  Krebs found 
that to be listened to at all he had to lie ,  and after he had done 
this twice he ,  too ,  had a reaction against the war and agains* -  
talking about it .  A distaste for everything that had happened 
to him in the War set in because of the lies he had told .  All 
of the times that had been able to make him feel cool and 
clear inside himself when he thought of them ;  the times so 
long back when he had done the one thing ,  the only thing for 
a man to do ,  easily and naturally ,  when he might have done 
something else ,  now lost their cool ,  valuable quality and then 
were lost themselves .  

His lies were quite unimportant lies and consisted in 
attributing to himself things other men had seen ,  done or 
heard of ,  and stating as facts certain apocryphal incidents 
familiar to all soldiers .  Even his lies were not sensational at 
the pool room .  His acquaintances ,  who had heard detailed 
accounts of German women found chained to machine - guns 
in the Argonne forest and who could not comprehend ,  or 
were barred by their patriotism from interest in ,  any German 
machine - gunners who were not chained ,  were not thrilled 
by his stories .  

Krebs acquired the nausea in regard to experience that is 
the result of untruth or exaggeration ,  and when he occasion -  
ally met another man who had really been a soldier and they 
talked a few minutes in the dressing room at a dance he fell 
into the easy pose of the old soldier among other soldiers : 
that he had been badly ,  sickeningly frightened all the time .  
In this way he lost everything .  

During this time ,  it was late summer ,  he was sleeping late 
in bed ,  getting up to walk down town to the library to get a 
book ,  eating lunch at home ,  reading on the front porch until 
he became bored and then walking down through the town 
to spend the hottest hours of the day in the cool dark of the 
pool room .  He loved to play pool .  

In the evening he practised on his clarinet ,  strolled down 



1 38 SOLDIERSHOME 

town ,  read and went to bed .  He was still a hero to his two 
young sisters .  His mother would have given him breakfast 
in bed if he had wanted it .  She often came in when he was 
in bed and asked him to tell her about the war ,  but her 
Attention always wandered .  His father was non - committal .  

Before Krebs went away to the war he had never been 
allowed to drive the family motor car .  His father was in the 
real estate business and always wanted the car to be at his 
command when he required it to take clients out into the 
country to show them a piece of farm property .  The car 
always stood outside the First National Bank building where 
his father had an office on the second floor .  Now ,  after the 
war ,  it was still the same car .  

Nothing was changed in the town except that the young 
girls had grown up .  But they lived in such a complicated 
world of already defined alliances and shifting feuds that 
Krebs did not feel the energy or the courage to break into it .  
He liked to look at them ,  though .  There were so many good -  
looking young girls .  Most of them had their hair cut short .  
When he went away only little girls wore their hair like that 
or girls that were fast .  They all wore sweaters and shirt 
waists with round Dutch collars .  It was a pattern .  He liked 
to look at them from the front porch as they walked on the 
other side of the street .  He liked to watch them walking 
under the shade of the trees .  He liked the round Dutch 
collars above their sweaters .  He liked their silk stockings and 
flat shoes .  He liked their bobbed hair and the way they 
walked .  

When he was in town their appeal to him was not very 
strong .  He did not like them when he saw them in the 
Greeks ice cream parlour .  He did not want them themselves 
really .  They were too complicated .  There was something 
else .  Vaguely he wanted a girl but he did not want to have to 
work to get her .  He would have liked to have a girl but he 
did not want to have to spend a long time getting her .  He 
did not want to get into the intrigue and the politics .  He did 



SOLDIERS HOME 139 

not want to have to do any courting .  He did not want to tell 
any more lies .  It wasnt worth it .  

He did not want any consequences .  He did not want any 
consequences ever again .  He wanted to live along without 
consequences .  Besides he did not really need a girl .  Thft 
army had taught him that .  It was all right to pose as though 
you had to have a girl .  Nearly everybody did that .  But it 
wasnt true .  You did not need a girl .  That was the funny 
thing .  First a fellow boasted how girls meant nothing to him ,  
that he never thought of them ,  that they could not touch 
him .  Then a fellow boasted that he could not get along 
without girls ,  that he had to have them all the time ,  that he 
could not go to sleep without them .  

That was all a lie .  It was all a lie both ways .  You did not 
need a girl unless you thought about them .  He learned that 
in the army .  Then sooner or later you always got one .  When 
you were really ripe for a girl you always got one .  You did 
not have to think about it .  Sooner or later it would come .  
He had learned that in the army .  

Now he would have liked a girl if she had come to him 
and not wanted to talk .  But here at home it was all too com -  
plicated .  He knew he could never get through it all again .  
It was not worth the trouble .  That was the thing about 
French girls and German girls .  There was not all this talking .  
You couldnt talk much and you did not need to talk .  It was 
simple and you were friends .  He thought about France and 
then he began to think about Germany .  On the whole he 
had liked Germany better .  He did not want to leave Ger -  
many .  He did not want to come home .  Still ,  he had come 
home .  He sat on the front porch .  

He liked the girls that were walking along the other side of 
the street .  He liked the look of them much better than the 
French girls or the German girls .  But the world they were 
in was not the world he was in .  He would like to have one 
of them .  But it was not worth it .  They were such a nice 
pattern .  He liked the pattern .  It was exciting .  But he would 



i 4 o SOLDIERS HOME 

not go through all the talking .  He did not want one badly 
enough .  He liked to look at them all ,  though .  It was not 
worth it .  Not now when things were getting good again .  

He sat there on the porch reading a book on the war .  It 
was a history and he was reading about all the engagements 
he had been in .  It was the most interesting reading he had 
ever done .  He wished there were more maps .  He looked 
forward with a good feeling to reading all the really good 
histories when they would come out with good detail maps .  
Now he was really learning about the war .  He had been a 
good soldier .  That made a difference .  

One morning after he had been home about a month his 
mother came into his bedroom and sat on the bed .  She 
smoothed her apron .  

I had a talk with your father last night ,  Harold ,  she said ,  
x and he is willing for you to take the car out in the evenings .  

Yeah ?  5 said Krebs ,  who was not fully awake .  Take the 
car out ?  Yeah ?  

Yes .  Your father has felt for some time that you should be 
able to take the car out in the evenings whenever you wished ,  
but we only talked it over last night .  

Til bet you made him ,  Krebs said .  

No .  It was your fathers suggestion that we talk the 
matter over .  

Yeah .  Ill bet you made him ,  Krebs sat up in bed .  

Will you come down to breakfast ,  Harold ?  his mother said .  

As soon as I get my clothes on ,  Krebs said .  

His mother went out of the room and he could hear her 
frying something downstairs while he washed ,  shaved and 
dressed to go down into the dining - room for breakfast .  While 
he was eating breakfast his sister brought in the mail .  

Well ,  Hare ,  she said .  You old sleepy - head .  What do you 
ver get up for ?  

Krebs looked at her .  He liked her .  She was his best sister .  

Have you got the paper ?  he asked .  

She handed him The Kansas City Star and he shucked off 



SOLDIERS HOME I4 i 

its brown wrapper and opened it to the sporting page .  He 
folded The Star open and propped it against the water pitcher 
with his cereal dish to steady it ,  so he could read while he ate .  

Harold /  his mother stood in the kitchen doorway ,  Harol^ ,  
please dont muss up the paper .  Your father cant read his 
Star if its been mussed .  

I wont muss it ,  Krebs said .  

His sister sat down at the table and watched him while he 
read .  

Were playing indoor over at school this afternoon ,  she 
said .  Im going to pitch .  

Good ,  said Krebs .  Hows the old wing ?  

I can pitch better than lots of the boys .  I tell them all you 
taught me .  The other girls arent much good .  

Yeah ?  said Krebs .  

I tell them all youre my beau .  Arent you my beau ,  Hare ? * 

You bet .  

Couldnt your brother really be your beau just because 
hes your brother ?  

I dont know .  

Sure you know .  Couldnt you be my beau ,  Hare ,  if I was 
old enough and if you wanted to ?  

Sure .  Youre my girl now .  

Am I really your girl ?  

Sure .  

Do you love me ?  

Uh ,  huh .  

Will you love me always ?  

Sure .  

Will you come over and watch me play indoor ?  

Maybe .  

Aw ,  Hare ,  you dont love me .  If you loved me ,  youd want 
to come over and watch me play indoor .  

Krebs mother came into the dining - room from the kitchen .  
She carried a plate with two fried eggs and some crisp bacon 
on it and a plate of buckwheat cakes .  



i 4 2 SOLDIERS HOME 

You run along ,  Helen /  she said .  I want to talk to Harold .  

She put the eggs and bacon down in front of him and 
brought in a jug of maple syrup for the buckwheat cakes .  
Then she sat down across the table from Krebs .  

I wish youd put down the paper a minute ,  Harold /  she 
said .  

Krebs took down the paper and folded it .  

Have you decided what you are going to do yet ,  Harold ?  
his mother said ,  taking off her glasses .  

No /  said Krebs .  

Dont you think its about time ?  His mother did not say 
this in a mean way .  She seemed worried .  

I hadnt thought about it /  Krebs said .  

God has some work for every one to do /  his mother said .  
There can be no idle hands in His Kingdom .  

Pm not in His Kingdom /  Krebs said .  

We arc all of us in His Kingdom .  

Krebs felt embarrassed and resentful as always .  

Ive worried about you so much ,  Harold /  his mother went 
on .  I know the temptations you must have been exposed to .  
I know how weak men are .  I know what your own dear 
grandfather ,  my own father ,  told us about the Civil War ,  and 
I have prayed for you .  I pray for you all day long ,  Harold .  

Krebs looked at the bacon fat hardening on his plate .  

Your father is worried ,  too /  his mother went on .  He 
thinks you have lost your ambition ,  that you havent got a 
definite aim in life .  Charley Simmons ,  who is just your age ,  
has a good job and is going to be married .  The boys are all 
settling down ;  theyre all determined to get somewhere ;  you 
can see that boys like Charley Simmons are on their way to 
being really a credit to the community .  

Krebs said nothing .  

Dont look that way ,  Harold /  his mother said .  You 
know we love you and I want to tell you for your own good 
how matters stand .  Your father does not want to hamper 
your freedom .  He thinks you should be allowed to drive the 



SOLDIERS HOME 143 

car .  If you want to take some of the nice girls out riding 
with you ,  we are only too pleased .  We want you to enjoy 
yourself .  But you are going to have to settle down to work ,  
Harold .  Your father doesnt care what you start in at .  c 
All work is honourable as he says .  But youve got to  - make a 
start at something .  He asked me to speak to you this morning 
and then you can stop in and sec him at his office .  

Is that all ?  Krcbs said .  

Yes .  Dont you love your mother ,  dear boy ?  

No ,  Krebs said .  

His mother looked at him across the table .  Her eyes were 
shiny .  She started crying .  

I dont love anybody ,  Krebs said .  

It wasnt any good .  He couldnt tell her ,  he couldnt 
make her see it .  It was silly to have said it .  He had only 
hurt her .  He went over and took hold of her arm .  She was 
crying with her head in her hands .  

I didnt mean it ,  he said .  I was just angry at something .  
I didnt mean I didnt love you .  

His mother went on crying .  Krebs put his arm on her 
shoulder .  

Cant you believe me ,  mother ?  

His mother shook her head .  

Please ,  please ,  mother .  Please believe me .  

All right ,  his mother said chokily .  She looked up at him .  
I believe you ,  Harold .  

Krebs kissed her hair .  She put her face up to him .  

Tm your mother ,  she said .  I held you next to my heart 
when you were a tiny baby .  

Krebs felt sick and vaguely nauseated .  

I know ,  Mummy ,  he said .  Til try and* be a good boy for 
you .  

Would you kneel and pray with me ,  Harold ?  his mother 
asked .  

They knelt down beside the dining - room table and Krebss 
mother prayed .  



i 4 4 SOLDIERS HOME 

Now ,  you pray ,  Harold /  she said .  

I cant ,  Krebs said .  

Try ,  Harold .  

I cant .  

Do you want me to pray for you ?  

Yes .  

So his mother prayed for him and then they stood up and 
Krebs kissed his mother and went out of the house .  He had 
tried so to keep his life from being complicated .  Still ,  none of 
it had touched him .  He had felt sorry for his mother and she 
had made him lie .  He would go to Kansas City and get a job 
and she would feel all right about it .  There would be one 
more scene maybe before he got away .  He would not go 
down to his fathers office .  He would miss that one .  He 
wanted his life to go smoothly .  It had just gotten going that 
way .  Well ,  that was all over now ,  anyway .  He would go 
over to the schoolyard and watch Helen play indoor baseball .  



If it happened right down close in front of you ,  you could see Villalta 
snarl at the bull and curse him ,  and when the bull charged he swung 
back firmly like an oak when the wind hits it ,  his legs tight together ,  
the muleta trailing and the sword following the curve behind .  Then he 
cursed the bull ,  flopped the muleta at him ,  and swung back from the 
charge ,  his feet firm ,  the muleta curving ,  and at each swing the crowd 
roaring .  

When he started to kill it was all in the same rush .  The bull 
looking at him straight in front ,  hating .  He drew out the sword from 
the folds of the muleta and sighted with the same movement and called 
to the bull ,  Toro! Toro! and the bull charged and Villalta charged 
and just for a moment they became one .  Villalta became one with 
the bull and then it was over .  Villalta standing straight and the 
red hilt of the sword sticking out dully between the buWs shoulders .  
Villalta ,  his hand up at the crowd and the bull roaring blood ,  looking 
straight at Villalta and his legs caving .  



CROSS - COUNTRY SNOW 

THE funicular car bucked once more and then stopped .  It 
could not go farther ,  the snow drifted solidly across the track .  
The gale scouring the exposed surface of the mountain had 
swept the snow surface into a wind - board crust .  Nick ,  
waxing his skis in the baggage car ,  pushed his boots into the 
toe irons and shut the clamp tight .  He jumped from the car 
sideways on to the hard wind - board ,  made a jump turn and 
crouching and trailing his sticks slipped in a rush down the 
slope .  

On the white below George dipped and rose and dipped 
out of sight .  The rush and the sudden swoop as he dropped 
down a steep undulation in the mountain side plucked Nicks 
mind out and left him only the wonderful flying ,  dropping 
sensation in his body .  He rose to a slight up - run and then the 
snow seemed to drop out from under him as he went down ,  

163 



164 CROSS - COUNTRY SNOW 

down ,  faster and faster in a rush down the last ,  long steep 
slope .  Crouching so he was almost sitting back on his skis ,  
trying to keep the centre of gravity low ,  the snow driving like 
a sand - storm ,  he knew the pace was too much .  But he held 
it .  He would not let go and spill .  Then a patch of soft snow ,  
left in a hollow by the wind ,  spilled him and he went over 
and over in a clashing of skis ,  feeling like a shot rabbit ,  then 
stuck ,  his legs crossed ,  his skis sticking straight up and his 
nose and ears jammed full of snow .  

George stood a little farther down the slope ,  knocking the 
snow from his wind jacket with big slaps .  

You took a beauty ,  Mike ,  5 he called to Nick .  Thats 
lousy soft snow .  It bagged me the same way .  

Whats it like over the khud ?  Nick kicked his skis around 
as he lay on his back and stood up .  

Youve got to keep to your left .  Its a good fast drop with 
a Christy at the bottom on account of a fence .  

Wait a sec and well take it together .  

No ,  you come on and go first .  I like to see you take the 
knuds .  

Nick Adams came up past George ,  big back and blond 
head still faintly snowy ,  then his skis started slipping at the 
edge and he swooped down ,  hissing in the crystalline powder 
snow and seeming to float up and drop down as he went up 
and down the billowing khuds .  He held to his left at the 
end ,  as he rushed toward the fence ,  keeping his knees 
locked tight together and turning his body like tightening 
a screw brought his skis sharply around to the right in 
a smother of snow and slowed into a loss of speed parallel to 
the hillside and the wire fence .  

He looked up thfe hill .  George was coming down in tele -  
mark position ,  kneeling ;  one leg forward and bent ,  the other 
trailing ;  his sticks hanging like some insects thin legs ,  kicking 
up puffs of snow as they touched the surface and finally the 
whole kneeling ,  trailing figure coming around in a beautiful 
right curve ,  crouching ,  the legs shot forward and back ,  the 



CROSS  - COUNTRY SNOW 165 

body leaning out against the swing ,  the sticks accenting the 
curve like points of light ,  all in a wild cloud of snow .  

I wns afraid to Christy ,  5 George said ,  the snow was too 
deep .  You made a beauty .  

I cant tclemark with my leg ,  5 Nick said .  

Nick held down the top strand of the wire fence with his ski 
and George slid over .  Nick followed him down to the road .  
They thrust bent - kneed along the road into a pine forest .  
The road became polished ice ,  stained orange and a tobacco 
yellow from the teams hauling logs .  The skiers kept to the 
stretch of snow along the side .  The road dipped sharply to 
a stream and then ran straight up - hill .  Through the woods 
they could see a long ,  low - eaved ,  weather - beaten building .  
Through the trees it was a faded yellow .  Closer the window 
frames were painted green .  The paint was peeling .  Nick 
knocked his clamps loose with one of his ski sticks and kicked 
off the skis .  

We might as well carry them up here ,  5 he said .  

He climbed the steep road with the skis on his shoulder ,  
kicking his heel nails into the icy footing .  He heard George 
breathing and kicking in his heels just behind him .  They 
stacked the skis against the side of the inn and slapped the 
snow off each other 5 s trousers ,  stamped their boots clean ,  and 
went in .  

Inside it was quite dark .  A big porcelain stove shone in the 
corner of the room .  There was a low ceiling .  Smooth 
benches back of dark ,  wine - stained tables were along each 
side of the rooms .  Two Swiss sat over their pipes and two 
decies of cloudy new wine next to the stove .  The boys took 
off their jackets and sat against the wall on the other side of 
the stove .  A voice in the next room stopped singing and a 
girl in a blue apron came in through the door to see what 
they wanted to drink .  

A bottle of Sion ,  5 Nick said .  Is that all right ,  Gidge ?  5 

Sure , * said George .  You know more about wine than I 
do .  I like any of it .  5 



166 CROSS - COUNTRY SNOW 

The girl went out .  

Theres nothing really can touch skiing ,  is there ?  Nick 
said .  The way it feels when you first drop off on a long 
nn .  

Huh /  said George .  Its too swell to talk about .  

The girl brought the wine in and they had trouble with the 
cork .  Nick finally opened it .  The girl went out and they 
heard her singing in German in the next room .  

Those specks of cork in it dont matter ,  said Nick .  

I wonder if shes got any cake .  

Lets find out .  

The girl came in and Nick noticed that her apron covered 
swellingly her pregnancy .  I wonder why I didnt see that 
when she first came in ,  he thought .  

What were you singing ?  he asked her .  

Opera ,  German opera .  She did not care to discuss the 
subject .  We have some apple strudel if you want it .  

She isnt so cordial ,  is she ?  said George .  

Oh ,  well .  She doesnt know us and she thought we were 
going to kid her about her singing ,  maybe .  Shes from up 
where they speak German probably and shes touchy about 
being here ,  and then shes got that baby coming without 
being married and shes touchy .  

How do you know she isnt married ?  

No ring .  Hell ,  no girls get married around here till theyre 
knocked up .  

The door came open and a gang of woodcutters from up 
the road came in ,  stamping their boots and steaming in the 
room .  The waitress brought in three litres of new wine for 
the gang and they sat at the two tables ,  smoking and quiet ,  
with their hats off ,  leaning back against the wall or forward 
on the table .  Outside the horses on the wood sledges made 
an occasional sharp jangle of bells as they tossed their heads .  

George and Nick were happy .  They were fond of each 
other .  They knew they had the run back home ahead of 
them .  



CROSS - COUNTRY SNOW 167 

When have you got to go back to school ?  Nick asked .  

To - night ,  George answered .  Ive got to get the ten - forty 
from Montreux .  

T wish you could stick over and we could do the Dent du 
Lys to - morrow .  

M got to gefc educated ,  George said .  Gee ,  Mike ,  dont you 
wish we could just bum together ?  Take our skis and go on 
the train to where there was good running and then go on 
and put up at pubs and go right across the Oberland and up 
the Valais and all through the Engadine and just take repair 
kit and extra sweaters and pyjamas in our rucksacks and not 
give a damn about school or anything .  

Yes ,  and go through the Schwarzwald that way .  Gee ,  the 
swell places .  

Thats where you went fishing last summer ,  isnt it ?  

Yes .  

They ate the strudel and drank the rest of the wine .  

George leaned back against the wall and shut his eyes .  

Wine always makes me feel this way ,  he said .  

Feel bad ?  Nick asked .  

No .  I feel good ,  but funny .  

I know ,  Nick said .  

Sure ,  said George .  

Should we have another bottle ?  Nick asked .  

Not for me ,  George said .  

They sat there ,  Nick leaning his elbows on the table ,  
George slumped back against the wall .  

Is Helen going to have a baby ?  George said ,  coming down 
to the table from the wall .  

Yes .  

When ?  

Late next summer .  

Are you glad ?  

Yes .  Now ,  

Will you go back to the States ?  

I guess so .  



168 CROSS - COUNTRY SNOW 

Do you want to ?  

No .  

Does Helen ?  

No .  

George sat silent .  He looked at the empty bottle and the 
empty glasses .  

Its hell ,  isnt it ?  he said .  

No .  Not exactly ,  Nick said .  

Why not ?  

I dont know ,  Nick said .  

Will you ever go skiing together in the States ?  George 
said .  

I dont know ,  said Nick .  

The mountains arent much ,  George said .  

No ,  said Nick .  Theyre too rocky .  Theres too much 
timber and theyre too far away .  

Yes ,  said George ,  thats the way it is in California .  

Yes ,  5 Nick said ,  thats the way it is everywhere Ive ever 
been .  

Yes ,  said George ,  thats the way it is .  

The Swiss got up and paid and went out .  

I wish we were Swiss ,  George said .  

Theyve all got goitre ,  said Nick .  

I dont believe it ,  George said .  

Neither do I ,  said Nick .  

They laughed .  

Maybe well never go skiing again ,  Nick ,  George said .  

^Weve got to ,  said Nick .  It isnt worth while if you 
cant .  5 

Well go ,  all right ,  George said .  

Weve got to ,  5 Nick agreed .  

I wish we could make a promise about it ,  George said .  

Nick stood up .  He buckled his wind jacket tight .  He 
leaned over George and picked up the two ski poles from 
against the wall .  He stuck one of the ski poles into the 
floor .  



CROSS - COUNTRY SNOW 169 

There isnt any good in promising ,  he said .  

They opened the door and went out .  It was very cold .  
The snow had crusted hard .  The road ran up the hill into 
the pine trees .  

They took down their skis from where they leaned against 
the wall of the inn .  Nick put on his gloves .  George was 
already started up the road ,  his skis on his shoulder .  Now 
they would have the run home together .  



 /  heard the drums coming down the street and then the fifes and the 
pipes and then they came around the corner ,  all dancing .  The street 
was full of them .  Maera saw him and then I saw him .  When they 
stopped the music for the crouch he hunched down in the street with 
them all and when they started it again he jumped up and went 
dancing down the street with them .  He was drunk all right .  

You go down after him ,  said Maera ,  he hates me .  

So I went down and caught up with them and grabbed him while he 
was crouched down waiting for the music to break loose and said ,  
Come on Luis .  For Christs sake youve got bulls this afternoon .  He 
didnt listen to me ,  he was listening so hard for the music to start .  

I said ,  Dont be a damn fool Luis .  Come on back to the hotel .  

Then the music started up again and he jumped up and twisted away 
from me and started dancing .  I grabbed his arm and he pulled loose 
and said ,  Oh leave me alone .  Youre not my father .  

I went back to the hotel and Maera was on the balcony looking out 
to see if Td be bringing him back .  He went inside when he saw me 
and came downstairs disgusted .  

Well ,  I said ,  after all hes just an ignorant Mexican savage .  

Yes ,  Maera said ,  and who will kill his bulls after he gets a 
cornada ?  

We ,  I suppose ,  I said .  

Yes ,  we ,  said Maera .  We kills the savages bulls ,  and the 
drunkards bulls ,  and the riau - riau dancers bulls .  Yes .  We kill 
them .  We kill them all right .  Yes .  Yes .  Yes .  



MY OLD MAN 

I GUESS looking at it ,  now ,  my old man was cut out for a fat 
guy ,  one of those regular little roly fat guys you see around ,  
but he sure never got that way ,  except a little toward the last ,  
and then it wasnt his fault ,  he was riding over the jumps only 
and he could afford to carry plenty of weight then .  I remem -  

170 



MYOLDMAN 171 

ber the way hed pull on a rubber shirt over a couple of 
jerseys and a big sweat shirt over that ,  and get me to run 
with him in the forenoon in the hot sun .  Hed have ,  maybe ,  
taken a trial trip with one of Razzos skins early in the morn -  
ing after just getting in from Torino at four oclock in the 
morning and beating it out to the stables in a cab and then 
with the dew all over everything and the sun just starting to 
get going ,  Id help him pull off his boots and hed get into a 
pair of sneakers and all these sweaters and wed start out .  

Come on ,  kid ,  hed say ,  stepping up and down on his toes 
in front of the jocks dressing - room ,  lets get moving .  

Then wed start off jogging around the infield once ,  maybe ,  
with him ahead ,  running nice ,  and then turn out the gate and 
along one of those roads with all the trees along both sides of 
them that run out from San Siro .  Id go ahead of him when 
we hit the road and I could run pretty good and Id look 
around and hed be jogging easy just behind me and after a 
little while Id look around again and hed begun to sweat .  
Sweating heavy and hed just be dogging it along with his 
eyes on my back ,  but when hed catch me looking at him hed 
grin and say ,  Sweating plenty ?  When my old man grinned ,  
nobody could help but grin too .  Wed keep right on running 
out toward the mountains and then my old man would yell ,  
Hey ,  Joe! and Id look back and hed be sitting under a tree 
with a towel hed had around his waist wrapped around his 
neck .  

Id come back and sit down beside him and hed pull a 
rope out of his pocket and start skipping rope out in the sun 
with the sweat pouring off his face and him skipping rope 
out in the white dust with the rope going cloppetty ,  cloppetty ,  
clop ,  clop ,  clop ,  and the sun hotter ,  and him working harder 
up and down a patch of the road .  Say ,  it was a treat to see 
my old man skip rope ,  too .  He could whirr it fast or lop it 
slow and fancy .  Say ,  you ought to have seerf wops look at us 
sometimes ,  when theyd come by ,  going into town walking 
along with big white steers hauling the cart .  They sure looked 



iya MYOLDMAN 

as though they thought the old man was nuts .  Hed start the 
rope whirring till theyd stop dead still and watch him ,  then 
give the steers a cluck and a poke with the goad and get going 
again .  

When Id sit watching him working out in the hot sun I 
sure felt fond of him .  He sure was fun and he done his work 
so hard and hed finish up with a regular whirring thatd 
drive the sweat out on his face like water and then sling the 
rope at the tree and come over and sit down with me and 
lean back against the tree with the towel and a sweater 
wrapped around his neck .  

Sure its hell keeping it down ,  Joe /  hed say ,  and lean back 
and shut his eyes and breathe long and deep ,  e it aint like 
when youre a kid .  Then hed get up and before he started 
to cool wed jog along back to the stables .  Thats the way it 
was keeping down to weight .  He was worried all the time .  
Most jocks can just about ride off all they want to .  A jock 
loses about a kilo every time he rides ,  but my old man was 
sort of dried out and he couldnt keep down his kilos without 
all that running .  

I remember once at San Siro ,  Regoli ,  a little wop ,  that was 
riding for Buzoni ,  came out across the paddock going to the 
bar for something cool ;  and flicking his boots with his whip ,  
after hed just weighed in and my old man had just weighed 
in too ,  and came out with the saddle under his arm looking 
red - faced and tired and too big for his silks and he stood there 
looking at young Regoli standing up to the outdoors bar ,  cool 
and kid - looking ,  and I said ,  Whats the matter ,  Dad ?  cause 
I thought maybe Regoli had bumped him or something and 
he just looked at Regoli and said ,  Oh ,  to hell with it ,  and 
went on to the dressing - room .  

Well ,  it would have been all right ,  maybe ,  if wed stayed 
in Milan and ridden at Milan and Torino ,  cause if there ever 
were any easy courses ,  its those two .  Pianola ,  Joe /  my old 
man said when he dismounted in the winning stall after what 
the wops thought was a hell of steeplechase .  I asked him 



MYOLDMAN 173 

once .  This course rides itself .  Its the pace youre going at ,  
that makes riding the jumps dangerous ,  Joe .  We aint going 
any pace here ,  and they aint really bad jumps either .  But 
its the pace always not the jumps that makes th^ 
trouble .  

San Siro wtis the swellest course Id ever seen but the old 
man said it was a dogs life .  Going back and forth between 
Mirafiore and San Siro and riding just about every day in 
the week with a train ride every other night .  

I was nuts about the horses ,  too .  Theres something about 
it ,  when they come out and go up to the track to the post .  
Sort of dancy and tight looking with the jock keeping a tight 
hold on them and maybe easing off a little and letting them 
run a little going up .  Then once they were at the barrier it 
got me worse than anything .  Especially at San Siro with that 
big green infield and the mountains way off and the fat wop 
starter with his big whip and the jocks fiddling them around 
and then the barrier snapping up and that bell going off and 
them all getting off in a bunch and then commencing to 
string out .  You know the way a bunch of skins gets off .  If 
youre up in the stand with a pair of glasses all you see is 
them plunging off and then that bell goes off and it seems 
like it rings for a thousand years and then they come 
sweeping round the turn .  There wasnt ever anything like 
it for me .  

But my old man said one day ,  in the dressing - room ,  when 
he was getting into his street clothes ,  None of these things are 
horses ,  Joe .  Theyd kill that bunch of skates for their hides 
and hoofs up at Paris .  That was the day hed won the 
Premio Commercio with Lantorna shooting her out of the 
field the last hundred metres like pulling a cork out of a 
bottle .  

It was right after the Premio Commercio that we pulled 
out and left Italy .  My old man and Holbrook and a fat wop 
in a straw hat that kept wiping his face with a handkerchief 
were having an argument at a table in the Galleria .  They 



174 MYOLDMAN 

were all talking French and the two of them was after my 
old man about something .  Finally he didnt say anything 
any more but just sat there and looked at Holbrook ,  and the 
two of them kept after him ,  first one talking and then the 
other ,  and the fat wop always butting in on Holbrook .  

You go out and buy me a Sportsman ,  will you ,  Joe ?  my 
old man said ,  and handed me a couple of soldi without 
looking away from Holbrook .  

So I went out of the Galleria and walked over to in front 
of the Scala and bought a paper ,  and carne back and stood a 
little way away because I didnt want to butt in and my old 
man was sitting back in his chair looking down at his coffee 
and fooling with a spoon and Holbrook and the big wop were 
standing and the big wop was wiping his face and shaking 
his head .  And I came up and my old man acted just as 
though the two of them werent standing there and said ,  
 " Want an ice ,  Joe ?  Holbrook looked down at my old man 
and said slow and careful ,  You son of a bitch ,  and he and 
the fat wop went out through the tables .  

My old man sat there and sort of smiled at me ,  but his face 
was white and he looked sick as hell and I was scared and 
felt sick inside because I knew something had happened and 
I didnt see how anybody could call rny old man a son of a 
bitch ,  and get away with it .  My old man opened up the 
Sportsman and studied the handicaps for a while ,  and then he 
said ,  You got to take a lot of things in this world ,  Joe .  And 
three days later we left Milan for good on the Turin train for 
Paris ,  after an auction sale out in front of Turners stables of 
everything we couldnt get into a trunk and a suitcase .  

We got into Paris early in ,  the morning in a long ,  dirty 
station the old man told me was the Gare de Lyon .  Paris was 
an awful big town after Milan .  Seems like in Milan every -  
body is going somewhere and all the trams run somewhere 
and there aint any sort of a mix - up ,  but Paris is all balled 
up and they never do straighten it out .  I got to like it ,  though ,  
part of it ,  anyway ,  and say ,  its got the best race courses in 



MYOLDMAN 175 

the world .  Seems as though that were the thing that keeps 
it all going and about the only thing you can figure on is that 
every day the buses will be going out to whatever track theyre 
running at ,  going right out through everything to the track .  
I never really got to know Paris well ,  because I just came in 
about once or twice a week with the old man from Maisons 
and he always sat at the Cafe de la Paix on the Opera side 
with the rest of the gang from Maisons and I guess thats 
one of the busiest parts of the town .  But ,  say ,  it is funny that 
a big town like Paris wouldnt have a Galleria ,  isnt it ?  

Well ,  we went out to live at Maisons - Lafitte ,  where just 
about everybody lives except the gang at Chantilly ,  with a 
Mrs .  Meyers that runs a boarding house .  Maisons is about the 
swellest place to live Ive ever seen in all my life .  The town 
aint so much ,  but theres a lake and a swell forest that we 
used to go off bumming in all day ,  a couple of us kids ,  and my 
old man made me a sling shot and we got a lot of things with 
it but the best one was a magpie .  Young Dick Atkinson shot 
a rabbit with it one day and we put it under a tree and were 
all sitting around and Dick had some cigarettes and all of a 
sudden the rabbit jumped up and beat it into the brush and 
we chased it but we couldnt find it .  Gee ,  we had fun at 
Maisons .  Mrs .  Meyers used to give me lunch in the morning 
and Id be gone all day .  I learned to talk French quick .  Its 
an easy language .  

As soon as we got to Maisons ,  my old man wrote to Milan 
for his licence and he was pretty worried till it came .  He used 
to sit around the Cafe de Paris in Maisons with the gang ,  
there were lots of guys hed known when he rode up at Paris ,  
before the war ,  lived at Maisons ,  and theres a lot of time to 
sit around because the work around a racing stable ,  for the 
jocks ,  that is ,  is all cleaned up by nine oclock in the morning .  
They take the first bunch of skins out to gallop them at 5 . 30 
in the morning and they work the second lot at 8 oclock .  
That means getting up early all right and going to bed early ,  
too .  If a jocks riding for somebody too ,  he cant go boozing 



176 MY OLD MAN 

around because the trainer always has an eye on him if hes a 
kid and if he aint a kid hes always got an eye on himself .  
So mostly if a jock aint working he sits around the Caf6 de 
Paris with the gang and they can all sit around about two or 
three hours in front of some drink like a vermouth and seltz 
and they talk and tell stories and shoot pool &nd its sort of 
like a club or the Galleria in Milan .  Only it aint really like 
the Galleria because there everybody is going by all the time 
and theres everybody around at the tables .  

Well ,  my old man got his licence all right .  They sent it 
through to him without a word and he rode a couple of times .  
Amiens ,  up country and that sort of thing ,  but he didnt seem 
to get any engagement .  Everybody liked him and whenever 
Id come into the Cafe in the forenoon Id find somebody 
drinking with him because my old man wasnt tight like most 
of these jockies that have got the first dollar they made riding 
at the Worlds Fair in St .  Louis in nineteen ought four .  Thats 
what my old man would say when hed kid George Burns .  
But it seemed like everybody steered clear of giving my old 
man any mounts .  

We went out to wherever they were running every day 
with the car from Maisons and that was the most fun of all .  
I was glad when the horses came back from Deauville and 
the summer .  Even though it meant no more bumming in the 
woods ,  cause then wed ride to Enghien or Tremblay or St .  
Cloud and watch them from the trainers and jockeys stand .  
I sure learned about racing from going out with that gang 
and the fun of it was going every day .  

I remember once out at St .  Cloud .  It was a big two hun -  
dred thousand franc race with seven entries and War Cloud 
a big favourite .  I went around to the paddock to see the 
horses with my old man and you never saw such horses .  This 
War Cloud is a great big yellow horse that looks just like 
nothing but run .  I never saw such a horse .  He was being led 
around the paddocks with his head down and when he went 
by me I felt all hollow inside he was so beautiful .  There 



MYOLDMAN 177 

never was such a wonderful ,  lean ,  running built horse .  And 
he went around the paddock putting his feet just so and quiet 
and careful and moving easy like he knew just what he had to 
do and not jerking and standing up on his legs and getting 
wild eyed like you see these selling platers with a shot of dope 
in them .  The crowd was so thick I couldnt see him again 
except just his legs going by and some yellow and my old 
man started out through the crowd and I followed him over 
to the jocks dressing - room back in the trees and there was a 
big crowd around there ,  too ,  but the man at the door in a 
derby nodded to my old man and we got in and everybody 
was sitting around and getting dressed and pulling shirts 
over their heads and pulling boots on and it all smelled 
hot and sweaty and linimenty and outside was the crowd 
looking in .  

The old man went over and sat down beside George 
Gardner that was getting into his pants and said ,  Whats 
the dope ,  George ?  just in an ordinary tone of voice ,  cause 
there aint any use him feeling around because George 
either can tell him or he cant tell him .  

He wont win ,  George says very low ,  leaning over and 
buttoning the bottoms of his breeches .  

Who will ?  my old man says ,  leaning over close so nobody 
can hear .  

Foxless ,  George says ,  and if he does ,  save me a couple of 
tickets .  

My old man says something in a regular voice to George 
and George says ,  Dont ever bet on anything I tell you ,  
kidding like ,  and we beat it out and through all the crowd 
that was looking in ,  over to the 100 franc mutuel machine .  
But I knew something big was up because George is War 
Clouds jockey .  On the way he gets one of the yellow odds -  
sheets with the starting - prices on and War Cloud is only 
paying 5 for 10 ,  Cefisidote is next at 3 to i and fifth down the 
list this Foxless at 8 to i  .  My old man bets five thousand on 
Foxless to win and puts on a thousand to place and we went 

M 



178 MYOLDMAN 

around back of the grandstand to go up the stairs and get a 
place to watch the race .  

We were jammed in tight and first a man in a long coat 
with a grey tall hat and a whip folded up in his hand came 
out and then one after another the horses ,  with the jocks up 
and a stable boy holding the bridle on each side and walking 
along ,  followed the old guy .  That big yellow horse War 
Cloud came first .  He didnt look so big when you first looked 
at him until you saw the length of his legs and the whole way 
hes built and the way he moves .  Gosh ,  I never saw such a 
horse .  George Gardner was riding him and they moved 
along slow ,  back of the old guy in the grey tall hat that 
walked along like he was a ring master in a circus .  Back of 
War Cloud ,  moving along smooth and yellow in the sun ,  
was a good looking black with a nice head with Tommy 
Archibald riding him ;  and after the black was a string of five 
more horses all moving along slow in a procession past the 
grandstand and the pesage .  My old man said the black was 
Fcpdess and I took a good look at him and he was a nice -  
looking horse ,  all right ,  but nothing like War Cloud .  

Everybody cheered War Cloud when he went by and he 
sure was one swell - looking horse .  The procession of them 
went around on the other side past the pelouse and then 
back up to the near end of the course and the circus master 
had the stable boys turn them loose one after another so they 
could gallop by the stands on their way up to the post and 
let everybody have a good look at them .  They werent at 
the post hardly any time at all when the gong started and 
you could see them way off across the infield all in a bunch 
starting on the first swing like a lot of little toy horses .  I 
was watching them through the glasses and War Cloud was 
running well back ,  with one of the bays making the pace .  
They swept down and around and came pounding past and 
War Cloud was way back when they passed us and this 
Foxless horse in front and going smooth .  Gee ,  its awful 
when they go by you and then you have to watch them go 



MYOLDMAN 179 

farther away and get smaller and smaller and then all 
bunched up on the turns and then come around towards 
into the stretch and you feel like swearing and god - damming 
worse and worse .  Finally they made the last turn and came 
into the straightaway with this Foxlcss horse way out in 
front .  Everybody was looking funny and saying War Cloud 
in sort of a sick way and them pounding nearer down the 
stretch ,  and then something came out of the pack right into 
my glasses like a horse - headed yellow streak and everybody 
began to yell War Cloud as though they were crazy .  Wai -  
Cloud came on faster than Id ever seen anything in my life 
and pulled up on Foxless that was going fast as any black 
horse could go with the jock flogging hell out of him with the 
gad and they were right dead neck and neck for a second but 
War Cloud seemed going about twice as fast with those great 
jumps and that head out but it was while they were neck 
and neck that they passed the winning post and when the 
numbers went up in the slots the first one was 2 and that 
meant that Foxless had won .  

I felt all trembly and funny inside and then we were all 
jammed in with the people going downstairs to stand in front 
of the board where theyd post what Foxless paid .  Honest ,  
watching the race Id forgot how much my old man had bet 
on Foxless .  Id wanted War Cloud to win so damned bad .  
But now it was all over it was swell to know we had the 
winner .  

Wasnt it a swell race ,  Dad ?  I said to him .  

He looked at me sort of funny with his derby on the back 
of his head .  George Gardners a swell jockey all right ,  he 
said .  It sure took a great jock to keep that War Cloud horse 
from winning .  

Of course I knew it was funny all the time .  But my old 
man saying that right out like that sure took the kick all out 
of it for me and I didnt get the real kick back again ever ,  
even when they posted the numbers upon the board and the 
bell rang to pay off and we saw that Foxless paid 67 . 50 for 10 .  



i8o MY OLD MAN 

All round people were saying ,  Toor War Cloud! Poor War 
Cloud! And I thought ,  I wish I were a jockey and could 
have rode him instead of that son of a bitch .  And that was 
funny ,  thinking of George Gardner as a son of a bitch be -  
cause Id always liked him and besides hed given us the 
winner ,  but I guess thats what he is ,  all right .  

My old man had a big lot of money after that race and he 
took to coming into Paris oftener .  If they raced at Tremblay 
hed have them drop him in town on their way back to 
Maisons and he and Id sit out in front of the Cafe de la Paix 
and watch the people go by .  Its funny sitting there .  Theres 
streams of people going by and all sorts of guys come up and 
want to sell you things ,  and I loved to sit there with my old 
man .  That was when wed have the most fun .  Guys would 
come by selling funny rabbits that jumped if you squeezed a 
bulb and theyd come up to us and my old man would kid 
with them .  He could talk French just like English and all 
those kind of guys knew him cause you can always tell a 
jockey and then we always sat at the same table and they 
got used to seeing us there .  There were guys selling matri -  
monial papers and girls selling rubber eggs that when you 
squeezed them a rooster came out of them and one old 
wormy - looking guy that went by with postcards of Paris ,  
showing them to everybody ,  and ,  of course ,  nobody ever 
bought any ,  and then he would come back and show the 
under side of the pack and they would all be smutty postcards 
and lots of people would dig down and buy them .  

Gee ,  I remember the funny people that used to go by .  
Girls around supper time looking for somebody to take them 
out to eat and theyd speak to my old man and hed make 
some joke at them in French and theyd pat me on the head 
and go on .  Once there was an American woman sitting with 
her kid daughter at the next table to us and they were both 
eating ices and I kept looking at the girl and she was awfully 
good looking and I smiled at her and she smiled at me but 
that was all that ever came of it because I looked for her 



MY OLD MAN 181 

mother and her every day and I made up ways that I was 
going to speak to her and I wondered if I got to know her if 
her mother would let me take her out to Auteuil or Tremblay 
but I never saw either of them again .  Anyway ,  I guess it 
wouldnt have been any good ,  anyway ,  because looking back 
on it I rcmeniber the way I thought out would be best to 
speak to her was to say ,  Tardon me ,  but perhaps I can give 
you a winner at Enghicn to - day ?  and ,  after all ,  maybe she 
would have thought I was a tout instead of really trying to 
give her a winner .  

Wed sit at the Cafe de la Paix ,  my old man and me ,  and 
we had a big drag with the waiter because my old man drank 
whisky and it cost five francs ,  and that meant a good tip when 
the saucers were counted up .  My old man was drinking more 
than Id ever seen him ,  but he wasnt riding at all now and 
besides he said that whisky kept his weight down .  But I 
noticed he was putting it on ,  all right ,  just the same .  Hed 
busted away from his old gang out at Maisons and seemed 
to like just sitting around on the boulevard with me .  But he 
was dropping money every day at the track .  Hed feel sort of 
doleful after the last race ,  if hed lost on the day ,  until wed 
get to our table and hed have his first whisky and then hed 
be fine .  

Hed be reading the Paris - Sport and hed look over at me 
and say ,  Wheres your girl ,  Joe ?  to kid me on account I had 
told him about the girl that day at the next table .  And Id get 
red ,  but I liked being kidded about her .  It gave me a good 
feeling .  Keep your eye peeled for her ,  Joe ,  hed say ,  shell 
be back .  

Hed ask me questions about things and some of the things 
Id say hed laugh .  And then hed get started talking about 
things .  About riding down in Egypt ,  or at St .  Moritz on the 
ice before my mother died ,  and about during the war when 
they had regular races down in the south of France without 
any purses ,  or betting or crowds or anything just to keep the 
breed up .  Regular races with the jocks riding hell out of the 



i8 2 MYOLDMAN 

horses .  Gee ,  I could listen to my old man talk by the hour ,  
especially when hed had a couple or so of drinks .  Hed tell 
me about when he was a boy in Kentucky and going coon 
hunting ,  and the old days in the States before everything went 
on the bum there .  And hed say ,  Joe ,  when weve got a 
decent stake ,  youre going back there to the States and go to 
school .  

Whatve I got to go back there to go to school for when 
everythings on the bum there ?  Id ask him .  

Thats different ,  hed say and get the waiter over and pay 
the pile of saucers and wed get a taxi to the Gare St .  Lazare 
and get on the train out to Maisons .  

One day at Auteuil after a selling steeplechase ,  my old man 
bought in the winner for 30 , 000 francs .  He had to bid a 
little to get him but the stable let the horse go finally and my 
old man had his permit and his colours in a week .  Gee ,  I 
felt proud when my old man was an owner .  He fixed it up 
for stable space with Charles Drake and cut out coming in 
to Paris ,  and started his running and sweating out again ,  and 
him and I were the whole stable gang .  Our horses name was 
Gilford ,  he was Irish bred and a nice ,  sweet jumper .  My old 
man figured that training him and riding him ,  himself ,  he 
was a good investment .  I was proud of everything and I 
thought Gilford was as good a horse as War Cloud .  He was a 
good ,  solid jumper ,  a bay ,  with plenty of speed on the flat ,  if 
you asked him for it ,  and he was a nice - looking horse ,  too .  

Gee ,  I was fond of him .  The first time he started with my 
old man up ,  he finished third in a 2500 metre hurdle race and 
when my old man got off him ,  all sweating and happy in the 
place stall ,  and went in to weigh ,  I felt as proud of him as 
though it was the first race hed ever placed in .  You see ,  
when a guy aint been riding for a long time ,  you cant make 
yourself really believe that he has ever rode .  The whole 
thing was different now ,  cause down in Milan ,  even big 
races never seemed to make any difference to my old man ,  if 
he won he wasnt ever excited or anything ,  and now it was 



MY OLD MAN 18^ 

so I couldnt hardly sleep the night before a race and I knew 
my old man was excited ,  too ,  even if he didnt show it .  
Riding for yourself makes an awful difference .  

Second time Gilford and my old man started ,  was a rainy 
Sunday at Auteuil ,  in the Prix du Marat ,  a 4500 metre 
steeplechase .  As soon as hed gone out I beat it up in the 
stand with the new glasses my old man had bought for me to 
watch them .  They started way over at the far end of the 
course and there was some trouble at the barrier .  Something 
with goggle blinders on was making a great fuss and rearing 
around and busted the barrier once ,  but I could see my old 
man in our black jacket ,  with a white cross and a black cap ,  
sitting up on Gilford ,  and patting him with his hand .  Then 
they were off in a jump and out of sight behind the trees and 
the gong going for dear life and the pari - mutuel wickets 
rattling down .  Gosh ,  I was so excited ,  I was afraid to look 
at them ,  but I fixed the glasses on the place where they would 
come out back of the trees and then out they came with the 
old black jacket going third and they all sailing over the 
jump like birds .  Then they went out of sight again and then 
they came pounding out and down the hill and all going 
nice and sweet and easy and taking the fence smooth in a 
bunch ,  and moving away from us all solid .  Looked as though 
you could walk across on their backs they were all so bunched 
and going so smooth .  Then they bellied over the big double 
Bullfinch and something came down .  I couldnt see who it 
was ,  but in a minute the horse was up and galloping free 
and the field ,  all bunched still ,  sweeping around the long left 
turn into the straightaway .  They jumped the stone wall and 
came jammed down the stretch toward the big water - jump 
right in front of the stands .  I saw them coming and hollered 
at my old man as he went by ,  and he was leading by about a 
length and riding way out ,  and light as a monkey ,  and they 
were racing for the water - jump .  They took off over the big 
hedge of the water - jump in a pack and then there was a 
crash ,  and two horses pulled sideways out of it ,  and kept on 



i8 4 MY OLD MAN 

going ,  and three others were piled up .  I couldnt see my old 
man anywhere .  One horse kneed himself up and the jock 
had hold of the bridle and mounted and went slamming on 
after the place money .  The other horse was up and away 
by himself ,  jerking his head and galloping with the bridle 
rein hanging and the jock staggered over to one side of the 
track against the fence .  Then Gilford rolled over to one side 
off my old man and got up and started to run on three legs 
with his front off hoof dangling and there was my old man 
laying there on the grass flat out with his face up and blood 
all over the side of his head .  I ran down the stand and 
bumped into a jam of people and got to the rail and a cop 
grabbed me and held me and two big stretcher - bearers were 
going out after my old man and around on the other side of 
the course I saw three horses ,  strung way out ,  coming out of 
the trees and taking the jump .  

My old man was dead when they brought him in and while 
a doctor was listening to his heart with a thing plugged in 
his ears ,  I heard a shot up the track that meant theyd killed 
Gilford .  I lay down beside my old man ,  when they carried 
the stretcher into the hospital room ,  and hung on to the 
stretcher and cried and cried ,  and he looked so white and 
gone and so awfully dead ,  and I couldnt help feeling that if 
my old man was dead maybe they didnt need to have shot 
Gilford .  His hoof might have got well .  I dont know .  I 
loved my old man so much .  

Then a couple of guys came in and one of them patted me 
on the back and then went over and looked at my old man 
and then pulled a sheet off the cot and spread it over him ;  
and the other was telephoning in French for them to send the 
ambulance to take him out to Maisons .  And I couldnt stop 
crying ,  crying and choking ,  sort of ,  and George Gardner 
came in and sat down beside me on the floor and put his arm 
around me and says ,  Come on ,  Joe ,  old boy .  Get up and 
well go out and wait for the ambulance .  

George and I went out to the gate and I was trying to stop 



MYOLDMAN 185 

bawling and George wiped off my face with his handkerchief 
and we were standing back a little ways while the crowd was 
going out of the gate and a couple of guys stopped near us 
while we were waiting for the crowd to get through the gate 
and one of them was counting a bunch of mutuel tickets and 
he said ,  Weil ,  Butler got his ,  all right .  

The other guy said ,  C I dont give a good goddam if he did ,  
the crook .  He had it coming to him on the stuff hes pulled .  

Ill say he had ,  said the other guy ,  and tore the bunch of 
tickets in two .  

And George Gardner looked at me to see if Id heard and 
I had all right ,  and he said ,  Dont you listen to what those 
bums said ,  Joe .  Your old man was one swell guy .  

But I dont know .  Seems like when they get started they 
dont leave a guy nothing .  



Maera lay still  ,  his head on his arms ,  his face in the sand .  He felt 
warm and sticky from the bleeding .  Each time he felt the horn coming .  
Sometimes the bull only bumped him with his head .  Once the horn 
went all the way through him and he felt it go into the sand .  Someone 
had the bull by the tail .  They were swearing at him and flopping the 
cape in his face .  Then the bull was gone .  Some men picked Maera up 
and started to run with him toward the barriers through the gate out 
the passageway around under the grandstand to the infirmary .  They 
laid Maera down on a cot and one of the men went out for the doctor .  
The others stood around .  The doctor came running from the corral 
where he had been sewing up picador horses .  He had to stop and wash 
his hands .  There was a great shouting going on in the grandstand 
overhead .  Maera felt everything getting larger and larger and then 
smaller and smaller .  Then it got larger and larger and larger and 
then smaller and smaller .  Then everything commenced to run faster 
and faster as when they speed up on a cinematograph film .  Then he 
was dead .  



BIG TWO - HEARTED RIVER: PART I 

THE train went on up the track out of sight ,  around one of 
the hills of burnt timber .  Nick sat down on the bundle of 
canvas and bedding the baggage man had pitched out of the 
door of the baggage car .  There was no town ,  nothing but the 
rails and the burned - over country .  The thirteen saloons that 
had lined the one street of Seney had not left a trace .  The 
foundations of the Mansion House hotel stuck up above the 
ground .  The stone was chipped and split by the fire .  It was 
all that was left of the town of Seney .  Even the surface had 
been burned off the ground .  

Nick looked at the burned - over stretch of hill - side ,  where 
he had expected to find the scattered houses of the town and 
then walked down the railroad track to the bridge over the 
river .  The river was there .  It swirled against the log spiles 

1 86 



BIG TWO - HEARTED RIVER: PART I 187 

of the bridge .  Nick looked down into the clear ,  brown water ,  
coloured from the pebbly bottom ,  and watched the trout 
keeping themselves steady in the current with wavering fins .  
As he watched them they changed their positions by quick 
angles ,  only to hold steady in the fast water again .  Nick 
watched them a long time .  

He watched them holding themselves with their noses into 
the current ,  many trout in deep ,  fast moving water ,  slightly 
distorted as he watched far down through the glassy convex 
surface of the pool ,  its surface pushing and swelling smooth 
against the resistance of the log - driven piles of the bridge .  At ,  
the bottom of the pool were the big trout .  Nick did not see 
them at first .  Then he saw them at the bottom of the pool ,  
big trout looking to hold themselves on the gravel bottom in 
a varying mist of gravel and sand ,  raised in spurts by the 
current .  

Nick looked down into the pool from the bridge .  It was a 
hot day .  A kingfisher flew up the stream .  It was a long time 
since Nick had looked into a stream and seen trout .  They 
were very satisfactory .  As the shadow of the kingfisher moved 
up the stream ,  a big trout shot upstream in a long angle ,  only 
his shadow marking the angle ,  then lost his shadow as he 
came through the surface of the water ,  caught the sun ,  and 
then ,  as he went back into the stream under the surface ,  his 
shadow seemed to float down the stream with the current ,  
unresisting ,  to his post under the bridge where he tightened 
facing up into the current .  

Nicks heart tightened as the trout moved .  He felt all the 
old feeling .  

He turned and looked down the stream .  It stretched away ,  
pebbly - bottomed with shallows and big boulders and a deep 
pool as it curved away around the foot of a bluff .  

Nick walked back up the ties to where his pack lay in the 
cinders beside the railway track .  He was happy .  He ad -  
justed the pack harness around the bundle ,  pulling straps 
tight ,  slung the pack on his back ,  got his arms through the 



i88 BIG TWO - HEARTED RIVER: PART I 

shoulder straps and took some of the pull off his shoulders 
by leaning his forehead against the wide band of the tump -  
line .  Still ,  it was too heavy .  It was much too heavy .  He 
had his leather rod - case in his hand and leaning forward to 
keep the weight of the pack high on his shoulders he walked 
along the road that paralleled the railway track ,  leaving the 
burned town behind in the heat ,  and then turned off around 
a hill with a high ,  fire - scarred hill on either side on to a road 
that went back into the country .  He walked along the road 
feeling the ache from the pull of the heavy pack .  The road 
climbed steadily .  It was hard work walking up - hill .  His 
muscles ached and the day was hot ,  but Nick felt happy .  
He felt he had left everything behind ,  the need for thinking ,  
the need to write ,  other needs .  It was all back of him .  

From the time he had gotten down off the train and the 
baggage man had thrown his pack out of the open car door 
things had been different .  Seney was burned ,  the country 
was burned over and changed ,  but it did not matter .  It 
could not all be burned .  He knew that .  He hiked along the 
road ,  sweating in the sun ,  climbing to cross the range of hills 
that separated the railway from the pine plains .  

The road ran on ,  dipping occasionally ,  but always climb -  
ing .  Nick went on up .  Finally the road after going parallel 
to the burnt hill - side reached the top .  Nick leaned back 
against a stump and slipped out of the pack harness .  Ahead 
of him ,  as far as he could see ,  was the pine plain .  The burned 
country stopped off at the left with the range of hills .  On 
ahead islands of dark pine trees rose out of the plain .  Far off 
to the left was the line of the river .  Nick fallowed it with his 
eye and caught glints of the water in the sun .  

There was nothing but the pine plain ahead of him ,  until 
the far blue hills that marked the Lake Superior height of 
land .  He could hardly see them ,  faint and far away in the 
heat - light over the plain .  If he looked too steadily they were 
gone .  But if he only half - looked they were there ,  the far - off 
hills of the height of land .  



BIG TWO - HEARTED RIVER: PART I 189 

Nick sat down against the charred stump and smoked a 
cigarette .  His pack balanced on the top of the stump ,  harness 
holding ready ,  a hollow moulded in it from his back .  Nick 
sat smoking ,  looking out over the country .  He did not need 
to get his map out .  He knew where he was from the position 
of the river .  

As he smoked ,  his legs stretched out in front of him ,  he 
noticed a grasshopper walk along the ground and up on to 
his woollen sock .  The grasshopper was black .  As he had 
walked along the road ,  climbing ,  he had started many grass -  
hoppers from the dust .  They were all black .  They were not 
the big grasshoppers with yellow and black or red and black 
wings whirring out from their black wing sheathing as they 
fly up .  These were just ordinary hoppers ,  but all a sooty 
black in colour .  Nick had wondered about them as he 
walked ,  without really thinking about them .  Now ,  as he 
watched the black hopper that was nibbling at the wool of 
his sock with its fourway lip ,  he realized that they had all 
turned black from living in the burned - over land .  He 
realized that the fire must have come the year before ,  but the 
grasshoppers were all black now .  He wondered how long 
they would stay that way .  

Carefully he reached his hand down and took hold of the 
hopper by the wings .  He turned him up ,  all his legs walking 
in the air ,  and looked at his jointed belly .  Yes ,  it was black 
too ,  iridescent where the back and head were dusty .  

Go on ,  hopper /  Nick said ,  speaking out loud for the first 
time .  Tly away somewhere .  

He tossed the grasshopper up into the air and watched him 
sail away to a charcoal stump across the road .  

Nick stood up .  He leaned his back against the weight of 
his pack where it rested upright on the stump and got his 
arms through the shoulder straps .  He stood with the pack 
on his back on the brow of the hill looking out across the 
country toward the distant river and then struck down the 
hill - side away from the road .  Underfoot the ground was good 



190 BIG TWO - HEARTED RIVER: PART I 

walking .  Two hundred yards down the hill - side the fire line 
stopped .  Then it was sweet fern ,  growing ankle high ,  to 
walk through ,  and clumps of jack pines ;  a long undulating 
country with frequent rises and descents ,  sandy underfoot 
and the country alive again .  

Nick kept his direction by the sun .  He knew where he 
wanted to strike the river and he kept on through the pine 
plain ,  mounting small rises to see other rises ahead of him 
and sometimes from the top of a rise a great solid island of 
pines off to his right or his left .  He broke off some sprigs of 
the heathery sweet fern ,  and put them under his pack straps .  
The chafing crushed it and he smellcd it as he walked .  

He was tired and very hot ,  walking across the uneven ,  
shadelcss pine plain .  At any time he knew he would strike 
the river by turning off to his left .  It could not be more than 
a mile away .  But he kept on toward the north to hit the 
river as far upstream as he could go in one days walking .  

For some time as he walked Nick had been in sight of one 
of the big islands of pine standing out above the rolling high 
ground he was crossing .  He dipped down and then as he 
came slowly up to the crest of the ridge he turned and made 
toward the pine trees .  

There was no underbrush in the island of pine trees The 
trunks of the trees went straight up or slanted toward each 
other .  The trunks were straight and brown without branches .  
The branches were high above .  Some interlocked to make a 
solid shadow on the brown forest floor .  Around the grove of 
trees was a bare space .  It was brown and soft underfoot as 
Nick walked on it .  This was the over - lapping of the pine 
needle floor ,  extending out beyond the width of the high 
branches .  The trees had grown tall and the branches moved 
high ,  leaving in the sun this bare space they had once 
covered with shadow .  Sharp at the edge of this extension 
of the forest floor commenced the sweet fern .  

Nick slipped off his pack and lay down in the shade .  He 
lay on his back and looked up into the pine trees .  His neck 



BIG TWO - HEARTED RIVER: PART I 19! 

and back and the small of his back rested as he stretched .  
The earth felt good against his back .  He looked up at the 
sky ,  through the branches ,  and then shut his eyes .  He 
opened them and looked up again .  There was a wind high 
up in the branches .  He shut his eyes again and went to 
sleep .  

Nick woke stiff and cramped .  The sun was nearly down .  
His pack was heavy and the straps painful as he lifted it on .  
He leaned over with the pack on and picked up the leather 
rod - case and started out from the pine trees across the sweet 
fern swale ,  toward the river .  He knew it could not be more 
than a mile .  

He came down a hill - side covered with stumps into a 
meadow .  At the edge of the meadow flowed the river .  Nick 
was glad to get to the river .  He walked upstream through 
the meadow .  His trousers were soaked with the dew as he 
walked .  After the hot day ,  the dew had come quickly and 
heavily .  The river made no sound .  It was too fast and 
smooth .  At the edge of the meadow ,  before he mounted to 
a piece of high ground to make camp ,  Nick looked down the 
river at the trout rising .  They were rising to insects come 
from the swamp on the other side of the stream when the sun 
went down .  The trout jumped out of water to take them .  
While Nick walked through the little stretch of meadow 
alongside the stream ,  trout had jumped high out of water .  
Now as he looked down the river ,  the insects must be settling 
on the surface ,  for the trout were feeding steadily all down 
the stream .  As far down the long stretch as he could see ,  
the trout were rising ,  making circles all down the surface of 
the water ,  as though it were starting to rain .  

The ground rose ,  wooded and sandy ,  to overlook the 
meadow ,  the stretch of river and the swamp .  Nick dropped 
his pack and rod - case and looked for a level piece of ground .  
He was very hungry and he wanted to make his camp before 
he cooked .  Between two jack - pines ,  the ground was quite 
level .  He took the axe out of the pack and chopped out two 



192 BIG TWO - HEARTED RIVER: PART I 

projecting roots .  That levelled a piece of ground large 
enough to sleep on .  He smoothed out the sandy soil with his 
hand and pulled all the sweet fern bushes by their roots .  His 
hands smelled good from the sweet fern .  He smoothed the 
uprooted earth .  He did not want anything making lumps 
under the blankets .  When he had the ground smooth ,  he 
spread his three blankets .  One he folded double ,  next to the 
ground .  The other two he spread on top .  

With the axe he slit off a bright slab of pine from one of the 
stumps and split it into pegs for the tent .  He wanted them 
long and solid to hold in the ground .  With the tent unpacked 
and spread on the ground ,  the pack ,  leaning against a jack -  
pine ,  looked much smaller .  Nick tied the rope that served the 
tent for a ridge - pole to the trunk of one of the pine trees and 
pulled the tent up off the ground with the other end of the 
rope and tied it to the other pine .  The tent hung on the rope 
like a canvas blanket on a clothes line .  Nick poked a pole 
he had cut up under the back peak of the canvas and then 
made it a tent by pegging out the sides .  He pegged the sides 
out taut and drove the pegs deep ,  hitting them down into 
the ground with the flat of the axe until the rope loops were 
buried and the canvas was drum tight .  

Across the open mouth of the tent Nick fixed cheesecloth 
to keep out mosquitoes .  He crawled inside under the mos -  
quito bar with various things from the pack to put at the 
head of the bed under the slant of the canvas .  Inside the tent 
the light came through the brown canvas .  It smelled plea -  
santly of canvas .  Already there was something mysterious 
and home - like .  Nick was happy as he crawled inside the tent .  
He had not been unhappy all day .  This was different though .  
Now things were done .  There had been this to do .  Now it 
was done .  It had been a hard trip .  He was very tired .  That 
was done .  He had made his camp .  He was settled .  Nothing 
could touch him .  It was a good place to camp .  He was there ,  
in the good place .  He was in his home where he had made 
it .  Now he was hungry .  



BIG TWO -  HEARTED RIVER: PART I 193 

He came out ,  crawling under the cheesecloth .  It was 
quite dark outside .  It was lighter in the tent .  

Nick went over to the pack and found ,  with his fingers ,  a 
long nail in a paper sack of nails ,  in the bottom of the pack* 
He drove it into the pine tree ,  holding it close and hitting it 
gently with the flat of the axe .  He hung the pack up on the 
nail .  All his supplies were in the pack .  They were off the 
ground and sheltered now .  

Nick was hungry .  He did not believe he had ever been 
hungrier .  He opened and emptied a can of pork and beans 
and a can of spaghetti into the frying - pan .  

Ive got a right to eat this kind of stuff ,  if Im willing to 
carry it ,  Nick said .  His voice sounded strange in the darken -  
ing woods .  He did not speak again .  

He started a fire with some chunks of pine he got with the 
axe from a stump .  Over the fire he stuck a wire grill ,  push -  
ing the four legs down into the ground with his boot .  Nick 
put the frying - pan on the grill over the flames .  He was 
hungrier .  The beans and spaghetti warmed .  Nick stirred 
them and mixed them together .  They began to bubble ,  
making little bubbles that rose with difficulty to the surface .  
There was a good smell .  Nick got out a bottle of tomato 
catchup and cut four slices of bread .  The little bubbles 
were coming faster now ,  Nick sat down beside the fire and 
lifted the frying - pan off .  He poured about half the contents 
out into the tin plate .  It spread slowly on the plate .  Nick 
knew it was too hot .  He poured on some tomato catchup .  
He knew the beans and spaghetti were still too hot .  He 
looked at the fire ,  then at the tent ,  he was not going to spoil 
it all by burning his tongue .  For years he had never enjoyed 
fried bananas because he had never been able to wait for 
them to cool .  His tongue was very sensitive .  He was very 
hungry .  Across the river in the swamp ,  in the almost dark ,  
he saw a mist rising .  He looked at the tent once more .  All 
right .  He took a full spoonful from the plate .  

Chrise ,  Nick said .  Geezus Chrise ,  he said happily .  



194 BIG TWO - HEARTED RIVER: PART I 

He ate the whole plateful before he remembered the bread .  
Nick finished the second plateful with the bread ,  mopping 
the plate shiny .  He had not eaten since a cup of coffee and 
a ham sandwich in the station restaurant at St .  Ignace .  It 
had been a very fine experience .  He had been that hungry 
before ,  but had not been able to satisfy it .  He could have 
made camp hours before if he had wanted to .  There were 
plenty of good places to camp on the river .  But this was 
good .  

Nick tucked two big chips of pine under the grill .  The fire 
flared up .  He had forgotten to get water for the coffee .  Out 
of the pack he got a folding canvas bucket and walked down 
the hill ,  across the edge of the meadow ,  to the stream .  The 
other bank was in the white mist .  The grass was wet and 
cold as he knelt on the bank and dipped the canvas bucket 
into the stream .  It bellied and pulled hard in the current .  
The water was ice cold .  Nick rinsed the bucket and carried 
it full up to the camp .  Up away from the stream it was not 
so cold .  

Nick drove another big nail and hung up the bucket full 
of water .  He dipped the coffee pot half full ,  put some more 
chips under the grill on to the fire and put the pot on .  He 
could not remember which way he made coffee .  He could 
remember an argument about it with Hopkins ,  but not which 
side he had taken .  He decided to bring it to a boil .  He 
remembered now that was Hopkinss way .  He had once 
argued about everything with Hopkins .  While he waited 
for the coffee to boil ,  he opened a small can of apricots .  He 
liked to open cans .  He emptied the can of apricots out into a 
tin cup .  While he watched the coffee on the fire ,  he drank 
the juice syrup of the apricots ,  carefully at first to keep from 
spilling ,  then meditatively ,  sucking the apricots down .  They 
were better than fresh apricots .  

The coffee boiled as he watched .  The lid came up and 
coffee and grounds ran down the side of the pot .  Nick took 
it off the grill .  It was a triumph for Hopkins .  He put sugar 



BIG TWO -  HEARTED RIVER: PART I 195 

in the empty apricot cup and poured some of the coffee out 
to cool .  It was too hot to pour and he used his hat to hold 
the handle of the coffee pot .  He would not let it steep in the 
pot at all .  Not the first cup .  It should be straight Hopkins 
all the way .  Hop deserved that .  He was a very serious coffee 
drinker .  He  \ ^as the most serious man Nick had ever known .  
Not heavy ,  serious .  That was a long time ago .  Hopkins 
spoke without moving his lips .  He had played polo .  He 
made millions of dollars in Texas .  He had borrowed car 
fare to go to Chicago ,  when the wire came that his first big 
well had come in .  He could have wired for money .  That 
would have been too slow .  They called Hops girl the Blonde 
Venus .  Hop did not mind because she was not his real girl .  
Hopkins said very confidently that none of them would make 
fun of his real girl .  He was right .  Hopkins went away when 
the telegram came .  That was on the Black River .  It took 
eight days for the telegram to reach him .  Hopkins gave 
away his  . 22 calibre Colt automatic pistol to Nick .  He gave 
his camera to Bill .  It was to remember him always by .  They 
were all going fishing again next summer .  The Hop Head 
was rich .  He would get a yacht and they would all cruise 
along the north shore of Lake Superior .  He was excited 
but serious .  They said good - bye and all felt bad .  It broke up 
the trip .  They never saw Hopkins again .  That was a long 
time ago on the Black River .  

Nick drank the coffee ,  the coffee according to Hopkins .  
The coffee was bitter .  Nick laughed .  It made a good ending 
to the story .  His mind was starting to work .  He knew he 
could choke it because he was tired enough .  He spilled the 
coffee out of the pot and shook the grounds loose into the 
fire .  He lit a cigarette and went inside the tent .  He took off 
his shoes and trousers ,  sitting on the blankets ,  rolled the 
shoes up inside the trousers for a pillow and got in between 
the blankets .  

Out through the front of the tent he watched the glow of 
the fire ,  when the night wind blew on it .  It was a quiet 



i g6 BIG TWO - HEARTED RIVER: PART I 

night .  The swamp was perfectly quiet .  Nick stretched 
under the blanket comfortably .  A mosquito hummed close 
to his ear .  Nick sat up and lit a match .  The mosquito was on 
the canvas ,  over his head .  Nick moved the match quickly up 
to it .  The mosquito made a satisfactory hiss in the flame .  The 
match went out .  Nick lay down again unddr the blanket .  
He turned on his side and shut his eyes .  He was sleepy .  He 
felt sleep coming .  He curled up under the blanket and went 
to sleep .  



They hanged Sam Cardinella at six oclock in the morning in the 
corridor of the county jail .  The corridor was high and narrow with 
tiers of cells on either side .  All the cells were occupied .  The men 
had been brought in for the hanging .  Five men sentenced to be 
hanged were in the five top cells .  Three of the men to be hanged were 
negroes .  They were very frightened .  One of the white men sat on his 
cot with his head in his hands .  The other lay flat on his cot with a 
blanket wrapped around his head .  

They came out on to the gallows through a door in the wall .  
There were seven of them including two priests .  They were carrying 
Sam Cardinella .  He had been like that since about four oclock in 
the morning .  

While they were strapping his legs together two guards held him 
up and the two priests were whispering to him .  Be a man ,  my son ,  
said one priest .  When they came toward him with the cap to go over 
his head Sam Cardinella lost control of his sphincter muscle .  The 
guards who had been holding him up both dropped him .  They were 
both disgusted .  How about a chair ,  WillT asked one of the guards .  
Better get one ?  said a man in a derby hat .  

When they all stepped back on the scaffolding back of the drop ,  
which was very heavy ,  built of oak and steel and swung on ball 
bearings ,  Sam Cardinella was left sitting there strapped tight ,  the 
younger of the two priests kneeling beside the chair .  The priest 
skipped back on to the scaffolding ,  just before the drop fell .  



BIG TWO - HEARTED RIVER: PART II 

IN the morning the sun was up and the tent was starting to 
get hot .  Nick crawled out under the mosquito netting 
stretched across the mouth of the tent ,  to look at the morning .  
The grass was wet on his hands as he came out .  He held his 
trousers and his shoes in his hands .  The sun was just up over 
the hill .  There was the meadow ,  the river and the swamp .  

197 



ig8 BIG TWO - HEARTED RIVER: PART II 

There were birch trees in the green of the swamp on the 
other side of the river .  

The river was clear and smoothly fast in the early morning .  
Down about two hundred yards were three logs all the way 
across the stream .  They made the water smooth and deep 
above them .  As Nick watched ,  a mink crossed the river on 
the logs and went into the swamp .  Nick was excited .  He 
was excited by the early morning and the river .  He was 
really too hurried to eat breakfast ,  but he knew he must .  He 
built a little fire and put on the coffee pot .  

While the water was heating in the pot he took an empty 
bottle and went down over the edge of the high ground to 
the meadow .  The meadow was wet with dew and Nick 
wanted to catch grasshoppers for bait before the sun dried 
the grass .  He found plenty of good grasshoppers .  They 
were at the base of the grass stems .  Sometimes they clung 
to a grass stem .  They were cold and wet with the dew ,  and 
could not jump until the sun warmed them .  Nick picked 
them up ,  taking only the medium - sized brown ones ,  and 
put them into the bottle .  He turned over a log and just 
under the shelter of the edge were several hundred hoppers .  
It was a grasshopper lodging house .  Nick put about fifty 
of the medium browns into the bottle .  While he was picking 
up the hoppers the others warmed in the sun and com -  
menced to hop away .  They flew when they hopped .  At 
first they made one flight and stayed stiff when they landed ,  
as though they were dead .  

Nick knew that by the time he was through with breakfast 
they would be as lively as ever .  Without dew in the grass it 
would take him all day to catch a bottle full of good grass -  
hoppers and he would have to crush many of them ,  slamming 
at them with his hat .  He washed his hands at the stream .  He 
was excited to be near it .  Then he walked up to the tent .  
The hoppers were already jumping stiffly in the grass .  In 
the bottle ,  warmed by th6 sun ,  they were jumping in a mass .  
Nick put in a pine stick as a cork .  It plugged the mouth of 



BIG TWO - HEARTED RIVER: PART II 199 

the bottle enough ,  so the hoppers could not get out and left 
plenty of air passage .  

He had rolled the log back and knew he could get grass -  
hoppers there every morning .  

Nick laid the bottle full of jumping grasshoppers against a 
pine trunk .  Rapidly he mixed some buckwheat flour with 
water and stirred it smooth ,  one cup of flour ,  one cup of 
water .  He put a handful of coffee in the pot and dipped a 
lump of grease out of a can and slid it sputtering across the 
hot skillet .  On the smoking skillet he poured smoothly the 
buckwheat batter .  It spread like lava ,  the grease spitting 
sharply .  Around the edges the buckwheat cake began to 
firm ,  then brown ,  then crisp .  The surface was bubbling 
slowly to porousness .  Nick pushed under the browned under 
surface with a fresh pine chip .  He shook the skillet sideways 
and the cake was loose on the surface .  I wont try and flop 
it ,  he thought .  He slid the chip of clean wood all the way 
under the cake ,  and flopped it over on to its face .  It sputtered 
in the pan .  

When it was cooked Nick regreased the skillet .  He used all 
the batter .  It made another big flapjack and one smaller one .  

Nick ate a big flapjack and a smaller one ,  covered with 
apple butter .  He put apple butter on the third cake ,  folded 
it over twice ,  wrapped it in oiled paper and put it in his shirt 
pocket .  He put the apple butter jar back in the pack and 
cut bread for two sandwiches .  

In the pack he found a big onion .  He sliced it in two and 
peeled the silky outer skin .  Then he cut one half into slices 
and made onion sandwiches .  He wrapped them in oiled 
paper and buttoned them in the other pocket of his khaki 
shirt .  He turned the skillet upside down on the grill ,  drank 
the coffee ,  sweetened and yellow brown with the condensed 
milk in it ,  and tidied up the camp .  It was a good camp .  

Nick took his fly rod out of the leather rod - case ,  jointed it ,  
and shoved the rod - case back into the tent .  He put on the 
reel and threaded the line through the guides .  He had to 



200 BIG TWO  - HEARTED RIVER: PART II 

hold it from hand to hand ,  as he threaded it ,  or it would 
slip back through its own weight .  It was a heavy ,  double 
tapered fly line .  Nick had paid eight dollars for it a long 
time ago .  It was made heavy to lift back in the air and 
come forward flat and heavy and straight to make it possible 
to cast a fly which has no weight .  Nick operied the alumi -  
nium leader box .  The leaders were coiled between the damp 
flannel pads .  Nick had wet the pads at the water cooler on 
the train up to St .  Ignace .  In the damp pads the gut leaders 
had softened and Nick unrolled one and tied it by a loop 
at the end to the heavy fly line .  He fastened a hook on the 
end of the leader .  It was a small hook ;  very thin and 
springy .  

Nick took it from his hook book ,  sitting with the rod across 
his lap .  He tested the knot and the spring of the rod by 
pulling the line taut .  It was a good feeling .  He was careful 
not to let the hook bite into his finger .  

He started down to the stream ,  holding his rod ,  the bottle 
of grasshoppers hung from his neck by a thong tied in half 
hitches around the neck of the bottle .  His landing net hung 
by a hook from his belt .  Over his shoulder was a long flour 
sack tied at each corner into an car .  The cord went over his 
shoulder .  The sack flapped against his legs .  

Nick felt awkward and professionally happy with all his 
equipment hanging from him .  The grasshopper bottle swung 
against his chest .  In his shirt the breast pockets bulged 
against him with the lunch and his fly book .  

He stepped into the stream .  It was a shock .  His trousers 
clung tight to his legs .  His shoes felt the gravel .  The water 
was a rising cold shock .  

Rushing ,  the current sucked against his legs .  Where he 
stepped in ,  the water was over his knees .  He waded with the 
current .  The gravel slid under his shoes .  He looked down at 
the swirl of water below each leg and tipped up the bottle 
to get a grasshopper .  

The first grasshopper gave a jump in the neck of the bottle 



BIG TWO -  HEARTED RIVER: PART II 201 

and went out into the water .  He was sucked under in the 
whirl by Nicks right leg and came to the surface a little way 
downstream .  He floated rapidly ,  kicking .  In a quick circle ,  
breaking the smooth surface of the water ,  he disappeared .  A 
trout had taken him .  

Another hopper poked his face out of the bottle .  His 
antennae wavered .  He was getting his front legs out of the 
bottle to jump .  Nick took him by the head and held him 
while he threaded the slim hook under his chin ,  down 
through his thorax and into the last segments of his abdomen .  
The grasshopper took hold of the hook with his front feet ,  
spitting tobacco juice on it .  Nick dropped him into the 
water .  

Holding the rod in his right hand he let out line against 
the pull of the grasshopper in the current .  He stripped off 
line from the reel with his left hand and let it run free .  He 
could see the hopper in the little waves of the current .  It 
went out of sight .  

There was a tug on the line .  Nick pulled against the taut 
line .  It was his first strike .  Holding the now living rod 
across the current ,  he brought in the line with his left hand .  
The rod bent in jerks ,  the trout pumping against the current .  
Nick knew it was a small one .  He lifted the rod straight up 
in the air .  It bowed with the pull .  

He saw the trout in the water jerking with his head and 
body against the shifting tangent of the line in the stream .  

Nick took the line in his left hand and pulled the trout ,  
thumping tiredly against the current ,  to the surface .  His 
back was mottled the clear ,  water - over - gravel colour ,  his 
side flashing in the sun .  The rod under his right arm ,  Nick 
stooped ,  dipping his right hand into the current .  He held 
the trout ,  never still ,  with his moist right hand ,  while he 
unhooked the barb from his mouth ,  then dropped him back 
into the stream .  

He hung unsteadily in the current ,  then settled to the 
bottom beside a stone .  Nick reached down his hand to touch 



202 BIG TWO -  HEARTED RIVE - R: PART II 

him ,  his arm to the elbow under water .  The trout was steady 
in the moving stream ,  resting on the gravel ,  beside a stone .  
As Nicks fingers touched him ,  touched his smooth ,  cool ,  
underwater feeling he was gone ,  gone in a shadow across 
the bottom of the stream .  

Hes all right ,  Nick thought .  He was only tired .  

He had wet his hand before he touched the trout ,  so he 
would not disturb the delicate mucus that covered him .  If a 
trout was touched with a dry hand ,  a white fungus attacked 
the unprotected spot .  Years before when he had fished 
crowded streams ,  with fly fishermen ahead of him and behind 
him ,  Nick had again and again come on dead trout ,  furry 
with white fungus ,  drifted against a rock ,  or floating belly up 
in some pool .  Nick did not like to fish with other men on the 
river .  Unless they were of your party ,  they spoiled it .  

He wallowed down the stream ,  above his knees in the 
current ,  through the fifty yards of shallow water above the 
pile of logs that crossed the stream .  He did not rebait his 
hook and held it in his hand as he waded .  He was certain he 
could catch small trout in the shallows ,  but Jie did not want 
them .  There would be no big trout in the shallows this time 
of day .  

Now the water deepened up his thighs sharply and coldly .  
Ahead was the smooth dammed - back flood of water above 
the logs .  The water was smooth and dark ;  on the left ,  the 
lower edge of the meadow ;  on the right the swamp .  

Nick leaned back against the current and took a hopper 
from the bottle .  He threaded the hopper on the hook and 
spat on him for good luck .  Then he pulled several yards of 
line from the reel and tossed the hopper out ahead on to the 
fast ,  dark water .  It floated down towards the logs ,  then the 
weight of the line pulled the bait under the surface .  Nick 
held the rod in his right hand ,  letting the line run out through 
his fingers .  

There was a long tug .  Nick struck and the rod came alive 
and dangerous ,  bent double ,  the line tightening ,  coming 



BIG TWO - HEARTED RIVER: PART II 203 

out of water ,  tightening ,  all in a heavy ,  dangerous ,  steady 
pull .  Nick felt the moment when the leader would break if 
the strain increased and let the line go .  

The reel racheted into a mechanical shriek as the line 
went out in a rush .  Too fast .  Nick could not check it ,  the 
line rushing out ,  the reel note rising as the line ran out .  

With the core of the reel showing ,  his heart feeling stopped 
with the excitement ,  leaning back against the current that 
mounted icily his thighs .  Nick thumbed the reel hard with 
his left hand .  It was awkward getting his thumb inside the 
fly reel frame .  

As he put on pressure the line tightened into sudden hard -  
ness and beyond the logs a huge trout went high out of water .  
As he jumped ,  Nick lowered the tip of the rod .  But he felt ,  as 
he dropped the tip to ease the strain ,  the moment when the 
strain was too great ;  the hardness too tight .  Of course ,  the 
leader had broken .  There was no mistaking the feeling when 
all spring left the line and it became dry and hard .  Then it 
went slack .  

His mouth dry ,  his heart down ,  Nick reeled in .  He had 
never seen so big a trout .  There was a heaviness ,  a power 
not to be held ,  and then the bulk of him ,  as he jumped .  He 
looked as broad as a salmon .  

Nicks hand was shaky .  He reeled in slowly .  The thrill 
had been too much .  He felt ,  vaguely ,  a little sick ,  as though 
it would be better to sit down .  

The leader had broken where the hook was tied to it .  
Nick took it in his hand .  He thought of the trout somewhere 
on the bottom ,  holding himself steady over the gravel ,  far 
down below the light ,  under the logs ,  with the hook in his jaw .  
Nick knew the trouts teeth would cut through the snell of the 
hook .  The hook would imbed itself in his jaw .  Hed bet the 
trout was angry .  Anything that size would be angry .  That 
was a trout .  He had been solidly hooked .  Solid as a rock .  
He felt like a rock ,  too ,  before he started off .  By God ,  he was 
a big one .  By God ,  he was the biggest one I ever heard of .  



204 BIG TWO - HEARTED RIVER: PART II 

Nick climbed out on to the meadow and stood ,  water run -  
ning down his trousers and out of his shoes ,  his shoes squelchy .  
He went over and sat on the logs .  He did not want to rush 
his sensations any .  

He wriggled his toes in the water ,  in his shoes ,  and got out 
a cigarette from his breast pocket .  He lit it and tossed the 
match into the fast water below the logs .  A tiny trout rose 
at the match ,  as it swung around in the fast current .  Nick 
laughed .  He would finish the cigarette .  

He sat on the logs ,  smoking ,  drying in the sun ,  the sun 
warm on his back ,  the river shallow ahead entering the woods ,  
curving into the woods ,  shallows ,  light glittering ,  big water -  
smooth rocks ,  cedars along the bank and white birches ,  the 
logs warm in the sun ,  smooth to sit on ,  without bark ,  grey to 
the touch ;  slowly the feeling of disappointment left him .  It 
went away slowly ,  the feeling of disappointment that came 
sharply after the thrill that made his shoulders ache .  It was 
all right now .  His rod lying out on the logs ,  Nick tied a new 
hook on the leader ,  pulling the gut tight until it grimped 
into itself in a hard knot .  

He baited up ,  then picked up the rod and walked to the 
far end of the logs to get into the water ,  where it was not too 
deep .  Under and beyond the logs was a deep pool .  Nick 
walked around the shallow shelf near the swamp shore until 
he came out on the shallow bed of the stream .  

On the left ,  where the meadow ended and the woods 
began ,  a great elm tree was uprooted .  Gone over in a storm ,  
it lay back into the woods ,  its roots clotted with dirt ,  grass 
growing in them ,  rising a solid bank beside the stream .  The 
river cut to the edge of the uprooted tree .  From where Nick 
stood he could see deep channels ,  like ruts ,  cut in the shallow 
bed of the stream by the flow of the current .  Pebbly where 
he stood and pebbly and full of boulders beyond ;  where it 
curved near the tree roots ,  the bed of the stream was marly 
and between the ruts of deep water green weed fronds swung 
in the current .  



BIG TWO - HEARTED RIVER: PART II 205 

Nick swung the rod back over his shoulder and forward ,  
and the line ,  curving forward ,  laid the grasshopper down on 
one of the deep channels in the weeds .  A trout struck and 
Nick hooked him .  

Holding the rod far out toward the uprooted tree and 
sloshing backward in the current ,  Nick worked the trout ,  
plunging ,  the rod bending alive ,  out of the danger of the 
weeds into the open river .  Holding the rod ,  pumping alive 
against the current ,  Nick brought the trout in .  He rushed ,  
but always came ,  the spring of the rod yielding to the rushes ,  
sometimes jerking under water ,  but always bringing him in .  
Nick eased downstream with the rushes .  The rod above his 
head he led the trout over the net ,  then lifted .  

The trout hung heavy in the net ,  mottled trout back and 
silver sides in the meshes .  Nick unhooked him ;  heavy sides ,  
good to hold ,  big undershot jaw ,  and slipped him ,  heaving 
and big sliding ,  into the long sack that hung from his 
shoulders in the water .  

Nick spread the mouth of the sack against the current and 
it filled ,  heavy with water .  He held it up ,  the bottom in the 
stream ,  and the water poured out through the sides .  Inside 
at the bottom was the big trout ,  alive in the water .  

Nick moved downstream .  The sack out ahead of him sunk 
heavy in the water ,  pulling from his shoulders .  

It was getting hot ,  the sun hot on the back of his neck .  

Nick had one good trout .  He did not care about getting 
many trout .  Now the stream was shallow and wide .  There 
were trees along both banks .  The trees of the left bank made 
short shadows on the current in the forenoon sun .  Nick knew 
there were trout in each shadow .  In the afternoon ,  after the 
sun had crossed toward the hills ,  the trout would be in the 
cool shadows on the other side of the stream .  

The very biggest ones would lie up close to the bank .  You 
could always pick them up there on the Black .  When the 
sun was down they all moved out into the current .  Just when 
the sun made the water blinding in the glare before it went 



ao6 BIG TWO - HEARTED RIVER: PART II 

down ,  you were liable to strike a big trout anywhere in the 
current .  It was almost impossible to fish then ,  the surface of 
the water was blinding as a mirror in the sun .  Of course ,  you 
could fish upstream ,  but in a stream like the Black ,  or this ,  
you had to wallow against the current and in a deep place ,  
the water piled up on you .  It was no fun tot fish upstream 
with this much current .  

Nick moved along through the shallow stretch watching 
the banks for deep holes .  A beech tree grew close beside the 
river ,  so that the branches hung down into the water .  The 
stream went back in under the leaves .  There were always 
trout in a place like that .  

Nick did not care about fishing that hole .  He was sure he 
would get hooked in the branches .  

It looked deep though .  He dropped the grasshopper so the 
current took it under water ,  back in under the overhanging 
branch .  The line pulled hard and Nick struck .  The trout 
threshed heavily ,  half out of water in the leaves and branches .  
The line was caught .  Nick pulled hard and the trout was off .  
He reeled in and holding the hook in his hand ,  walked down 
the stream .  

Ahead ,  close to the left bank ,  was a big log .  Nick saw it 
was hollow ;  pointing up river the current entered it smoothly ,  
only a little ripple spread each side of the log .  The water was 
deepening .  The top of the hollow log was grey and dry .  It 
was partly in the shadow .  

Nick took the cork out of the grasshopper bottle and a 
hopper clung to it .  He picked him off ,  hooked him and tossed 
him out .  He held the rod far out so that the hopper on the 
water moved into the current flowing into the hollow log .  
Nick lowered the rod and the hopper floated in .  There was a 
heavy strike .  Nick swung the rod against the pull .  It felt as 
though he were hooked into the log itself ,  except for the live 
feeling .  

He tried to force the fish out into the current .  It came ,  
heavily .  



BIG TWO -  HEAR TED RIVER: PART II 207 

The line went slack ,  and Nick thought the trout was gone .  
Then he saw him ,  very near ,  in the current ,  shaking his head ,  
trying to get the hook out .  His mouth was clamped shut .  
He was fighting the hook in the clear flowing current .  

Looping in the line with his left hand ,  Nick swung the rod 
to make the line taut and tried to lead the trout toward the 
net ,  but he was gone ,  out of sight ,  the line pumping .  Nick 
fought him against the current ,  letting him thump in the 
water against the spring of the rod .  He shifted the rod to his 
left hand ,  worked the trout upstream ,  holding his weight ,  
fighting on the rod ,  and then let him down into the net .  He 
lifted him clear of the water ,  a heavy half circle in the net ,  
the net dripping ,  unhooked him and slid him into the sack .  

He spread the mouth of the sack and looked down in at 
the two big trout alive in the water .  

Through the deepening water ,  Nick waded over to the 
hollow log .  He took the sack off ,  over his head ,  the trout 
flopping as it came out of water ,  and hung it so the trout 
were deep in the water .  Then he pulled himself up on the 
log and sat ,  the water from his trousers and boots running 
down into the stream .  He laid his rod down ,  moved along to 
the shady end of the log and took the sandwiches out of his 
pocket .  He dipped the sandwiches in the cold water .  The 
current carried away the crumbs .  He ate the sandwiches 
and dipped his hat full of water to drink ,  the water running 
out through his hat just ahead of his drinking .  

It was cool in the shade ,  sitting on the log .  He took a 
cigarette out and struck a match to light it .  The match sunk 
into the grey wood ,  making a tiny furrow .  Nick leaned over 
the side of the log ,  found a hard place and lit the match .  He 
sat smoking and watching the river .  

Ahead the river narrowed and went into a swamp .  The 
river became smooth and deep and the swamp looked solid 
with cedar trees ,  their trunks close together ,  their branches 
solid .  It would not be possible to walk through a swamp like 
that .  The branches grew so low .  You would have to keep 



2o8 BIG TWO - HEARTED RIVER: PART II 

almost level with the ground to move at all .  You could not 
crash through the branches .  That must be why the animals 
that lived in swamps were built the way they were ,  Nick 
thought .  

He wished he had brought something to read .  He felt like 
reading .  He did not feel like going on into tKc swamp .  He 
looked down the river .  A big cedar slanted all the way across 
the stream .  Beyond that the river went into the swamp .  

Nick did not want to go in there now .  He felt a reaction 
against deep wading with the water deepening up under his 
armpits ,  to hook big trout in places impossible to land them .  
In the swamp the banks were bare ,  the big cedars came 
together overhead ,  the sun did not come through ,  except in 
patches ;  in the fast deep water ,  in the half light ,  the fishing 
would be tragic .  In the swamp fishing was a tragic adventure .  
Nick did not want it .  He did not want to go down the 
stream any farther to - day .  

He took out his knife ,  opened it and stuck it in the log .  
Then he pulled up the sack ,  reached into it and brought out 
one of the trout .  Holding him near the tail ,  hard to hold ,  
alive ,  in his hand ,  he whacked him against the log .  The 
trout quivered ,  rigid .  Nick laid him on the log in the shade 
and broke the neck of the other fish the same way .  He laid 
them side by side on the log .  They were fine trout .  

Nick cleaned them ,  slitting them from the vent to the tip 
of the jaw .  All the insides and the gills and tongue came out 
in one piece .  They were both males ;  long grey -  white strips 
of milt ,  smooth and clean .  All the insides clean and compact ,  
coming out all together .  Nick tossed the offal ashore for the 
minks to find .  

He washed the trout in the stream .  When he held them 
back up in the water they looked like live fish .  Their colour 
was not gone yet .  He washed his hands and dried them on 
the log .  Then he laid the trout on the sack spread out on 
the log ,  rolled them up in it ,  tied the bundle and put it in 
the landing net .  His knife was still standing ,  blade stuck in 



BIG TWO -  HEARTED RIVER: PART II 209 

the log .  He cleaned it on the wood and put it in his pocket .  
Nick stood up on the log ,  holding his rod ,  the landing net 
hanging heavy ,  then stepped into the water and splashed 
ashore .  He climbed the bank and cut up into the woods> 
toward the high ground .  He was going back to camp .  He 
looked back .  The river just showed through the trees .  There 
were plenty of days coming when he could fish the swamp .  



r LENVOI 

1 he king was working in the garden .  He seemed very glad to see me .  
We walked through the garden .  This is the queen ,  he said .  She was 
clippingji rose bush .  Oh how do you do ,  she said .  We sat down at a 
table under a big tree and the king ordered whisky and soda .  We have 
good whisky anyway ,  he said .  The rej}olt^na^c^n^njttee ,  he told 
me ,  would not allow him to go outside the palace grounds .  Plastiras 
is a very good man I believe ,  he said ,  but frightfully difficult .  I think 
he did right though shooting those chaps .  If Kerensky had shot a few 
men things might have been altogetE^different .  Of course the great 
thing in this sort of an affair is not to be shot oneself! 

It was very jolly .  We talked for a long time .  Like all Greeks he 
wanted to go to America .  



MEN WITHOUT WOMEN 



THE UNDEFEATED 

MANUEL GARCIA climbed the stairs to Don Miguel Retanas 
office .  He set down his suitcase and knocked on the door .  
There was no answer .  Manuel ,  standing in the hallway ,  felt 
there was some one in the room .  He felt it through the door .  

Retana ,  he said ,  listening .  

There was no answer .  

Hes there ,  all right ,  Manuel thought .  

Retana ,  he said and banged the door .  

 " Whos there ?  said some one in the office .  

Me ,  Manolo ,  Manuel said* .  

What do you want ?  asked the voice .  .  

I want to work ,  Manuel said .  ^^ ~* 

Something in the door clicked several times and it swung 
open .  Manuel went in ,  carrying his suitcase .  

A little man sat behind a desk at the far side of the room .  
Over his head was a bulls head ,  stuffed by a Madrid ta&i -  
dernust ;  on the walls were framed photographs and bull -  
fight posters .  

The little man sat looking at Manuel .  ,  

*I thought theyd killed you /  he said<j5 

Manuel knocked with his knuckles on the desk .  The little 
man sat looking at him across the desk .  

How many corridas you had this year ?  Retana asked .  

One ,  3 he answered .  

Just that one ?  the little man asked .  

Thats all .  

I read about it in the papers ,  5 Retana said .  He leaned 
back in the chair and looked at Manuel .  

Manuel looked up at the stuffed bull .  He had seen it often 
before .  He felt a certain family interest in it .  It had killed 

210 



THE UNDEFEATED 211 

his brother ,  the promising one ,  about nine years ago .  Manuel 
remembered the day .  There was a brass plate on the oak 
shield the bulls head was mounted on .  Manuel could not 
read it ,  but he imagined it was in memory of his brother .  
Well ,  he had been a good kid .  

The plate % said: The Bull  " Mariposa "  of the Duke of 
Veragua ,  which accepted 9 varas for 7 caballos ,  and caused 
the death of Antonio Garcia ,  Novillero ,  April 27 ,  1909 .  

Retana saw him looking at the stuffed bulls head .  

The lot the Duke sent me for Sunday will make a scandal ,  
he said .  Theyre all bad in the legs .  What do they say about 
them at the Cafe ?  

C I dont know /  Manuel said I just got in .  

Yes ,  Retana said .  You still have your bag .  

He looked at Manuel ,  leaning back behind the big desk .  

Sit down ,  he said .  Take off your cap .  

Manuel sat down ;  his cap off ,  his face was changed .  He 
looked pale ,  and his coleta pinned forward on his head ,  so 
that it would not show under the cap ,  gave him a strange 
look .  

You dont look well ,  Retana said .  

I just got out of the hospital ,  Manuel said .  

I heard theyd cut your leg off ,  Retana said .  

No ,  said Manuel .  It got all right .  

Retana leaned forward across the desk and pushed a 
wooden box of cigarettes toward Manuel .  

Have a cigarette ,  he said .  

Thanks .  

Manuel lit it .  

Smoke ?  he said ,  offering the match to Retana .  

No ,  Retana waved his hand ,  I never smoke .  

Retana watched him smoking .  

Why dont you get a job and go to work ?  he said .  

*I dont want to work ,  Manuel said .  I am a bull - fighter /  

There arent any bull - fighters any more ,  Retana said .  

Tm a bull - fighter ,  Manuel said .  



212 THE UNDEFEATED 

Yes ,  while youre in there /  Retana said .  

Manuel laughed .  

Retana sat ,  saying nothing and looking at Manuel .  

Til put you in a nocturnal if you want ,  Retana offered .  

When ?  Manuel asked .  

To - morrow night .  

I dont like to substitute for anybody ,  Manuel said .  That 
was the way they all got killed .  That was the way Salvador 
got killed .  He tapped with his knuckles on the table .  

Its all Ive got ,  Retana said .  

Why dont you put me on next week ?  5 Manuel suggested .  

You wouldnt draw ,  Retana said .  All they want is Litri 
and Rubito and La Torre .  Those kids are good .  

Theyd come to see me get it ,  Manuel said ,  hopefully .  

No ,  they wouldnt .  They dont know who you are any 
more .  

Ive got a lot of stuff ,  Manuel said .  

Im offering to put you on to - morrow night ,  Retana said .  
4 You can work with young Hernandez and kill two novillos 
after the Chariots .  

Whose novillos ?  Manuel asked .  

I dont know .  Whatever stuff theyve got in the corrals .  
What the veterinaries wont pass in the daytime .  

I dont like to substitute ,  Manuel said .  

You can take it or leave it ,  Retana said .  He leaned for -  
ward over the papers .  He was no longer interested .  The 
appeal that Manuel had made to him for a moment when he 
thought of the old days was gone .  He would like to get him 
to substitute for Larita because he could get him cheaply .  
He could get others cheaply too .  He would like to help him ,  
though .  Still he had given him the chance .  It was up to him .  

How much do I get ?  Manuel asked .  He was still playing 
with the idea of refusing .  But he knew he could not refuse .  

Two hundred and fifty pesetas ,  Retana said .  He had 
thought of five hundred ,  but when he opened his mouth it 
said two hundred and fifty .  



THE UNDEFEATED 213 

You pay Villalta seven thousand /  Manuel said .  

Youre not Villalta ,  Retana said .  

I know it ,  Manuel said .  

He draws it ,  Manolo ,  Retana said in explanation .  

Sure ,  said Manuel .  He stood up .  Give me three hun -  
dred ,  Retana! 5 

All right ,  Retana agreed .  He reached in the drawer for a 
paper .  

Can I have fifty now ?  Manuel asked .  

Sure ,  said Retana .  He took a fifty - peseta note out of his 
pocket - book and laid it ,  spread out flat ,  on the table .  

Manuel picked it up and put it in his pocket .  

What about a cuadrilla ?  he asked .  

Theres the boys that always work for me nights ,  Retana 
said .  Theyre all right .  

How about picadors ?  Manuel asked .  

Theyre not much ,  Retana admitted .  

Ive got to have one good pic ,  Manuel said .  

Get him then ,  Retana said .  Go and get him .  

Not out of this ,  Manuel said .  Im not paying for any 
cuadrilla out of sixty duros .  

Retana said nothing but looked at Manuel across the big 
desk .  

You know Ive got to have one good pic ,  Manuel said .  

Retana said nothing but looked at Manuel from a long way 
off .  

It isnt right ,  Manuel said .  

Retana was still considering him ,  leaning back in his chair ,  
considering him from a long way away .  

Therere the regular pics /  he offered .  

I know ,  5 Manuel said .  I know your regular pics .  

Retana did not smile .  Manuel knew it was over .  

All I want is an even break ,  5 Manuel said reasoningly .  
*When I go out there I want to be able to call my shots on the 
bull .  It only takes one good picador .  5 

He was talking to a man who was no longer listening .  



2i 4 THE UNDEFEATED 

If you want something extra /  Retana said ,  go and get it .  
There will be a regular cuadrilla out there .  Bring as many 
of your own pics as you want .  The charlotada is over by 
10 . 30 .  

All right /  Manuel said .  If thats the way you feel about 
it .  

Thats the way /  Retana said .  

Til see you to - morrow night /  Manuel said .  

Til be out there /  Retana said .  

Manuel picked up his suitcase and went out .  

Shut the door /  Retana called .  

Manuel looked back .  Retana was sitting forward looking at 
some papers .  Manuel pulled the door tight until it clicked .  

He went down the stairs and out of the door into the hot 
brightness of the street .  It was very hot in the street and the 
light on the white buildings was sudden and hard on his eyes .  
He walked down the shady side of the street toward the 
Puerta del Sol .  The shade felt solid and cool as running 
water .  The heat came suddenly as he crossed the intersect -  
ing streets .  Manuel saw no one he knew in all the people he 
passed .  

Just before the Puerto del Sol he turned into a cafe .  

It was quiet in the cafe .  There were a few men sitting at 
tables against the wall .  At one table four men played cards .  
Most of the men sat against the wall smoking ,  empty coffee -  
cups and liqueur - glasses before them on the tables .  Manuel 
went through the long room to a small room in back .  A man 
sat at a table in the corner asleep .  Manuel sat down at one 
of the tables .  

A waiter came in and stood beside Manuels table .  

Have you seen Zurito ?  Manuel asked him .  

He was in before lunch /  the waiter answered ,  He wont 
be back before five oclock .  

Bring me some coffee and milk and a shot of the ordinary /  
Manuel said .  

The waiter came back into the room carrying a tray with a 



THE UNDEFEATED -  215 

big coffee - glass and a liqueur - glass on it .  In his left hand he 
held a bottle of brandy .  He swung these down to the table 
and a boy who had followed him poured coffee and milk into 
the glass from two shiny ,  spouted pots with long handles .  

Manuel took off his cap and the waiter noticed his pigtail 
pinned forward on his head .  He winked at the coffee - boy as 
he poured out the brandy into the little glass beside 
Manuels coffee .  The coffee - boy looked at Manuels pale face 
curiously .  

You fighting here ?  asked the waiter ,  corking up the bottle .  

Yes ,  Manuel said .  To - morrow .  

The waiter stood there ,  holding the bottle on one hip .  

You in the Charlie Chaplins ?  he asked .  

The coffee - boy looked away ,  embarrassed .  

No .  In the ordinary .  5 

I thought they were going to have Chaves and Hernan -  
dez ,  the waiter said .  

No .  Me and another .  

Who ?  Chaves or Hernandez ?  

Hernandez ,  I think /  

Whats the matter with Chaves ?  

He got hurt .  5 

 " Where did you hear that ?  

Retana .  

 " Hey ,  Looie ,  the waiter called to the next room .  Chaves 
got cogida .  

Manuel had taken the wrapper off the lumps of sugar and 
dropped them into his coffee .  He stirred it and drank it 
down ,  sweet ,  hot ,  and warming in his empty stomach .  He 
drank off the brandy .  

Give me another shot of that ,  he said to the waiter .  

The waiter uncorked the bottle and poured the glass full r 
slopping another drink into the saucer .  Another waiter had 
come up in front of the table .  The coffee - boy was gone ,  

Is Chaves hurt bad ?  the second waiter asked Manuel .  

I dont know ,  Manuel said .  Retana didnt say .  



216 THE UNDEFEATED 

A hell of a lot he cares /  the tall waiter said .  Manuel had 
not seen him before .  He must have just come up .  

If you stand in with Retana in this town ,  youre a made 
man /  the tall waiter said .  If you arent in with him ,  you 
might just as well go out and shoot yourself .  

You said it ,  the other waiter who had come in said .  You 
said it then .  

Youre right I said it ,  said the tall waiter .  I know what 
Im talking about when I talk about that bird .  

Look what hes done for Villalta ,  the first waiter said .  

And that aint all ,  the tall waiter said .  Look what hes 
done for Marcial Lalanda .  Look what hes done for 
Nacional .  

You said it ,  kid ,  agreed the short waiter .  

Manuel looked at them ,  standing talking in front of his 
table .  He had drunk his second brandy .  They had for -  
gotten about him .  They were not interested in him .  

Look at that bunch of camels ,  the tall waiter went on .  
Did you ever see this Nacional II ?  

I seen him last Sunday ,  didnt I ?  the original waiter said .  

Hes a giraffe ,  the short waiter said .  

What did I tell you ?  the tall waiter said .  Those are 
Retanas boys .  

Say ,  give me another shot of that /  Manuel said .  He had 
poured the brandy the waiter had slopped over in the saucer 
into his glass and drank it while they were talking .  

The original waiter poured his glass full mechanically ,  and 
the three of them went out of the room talking .  

In the far corner the man was still asleep ,  snoring slightly 
on the intaking breath ,  his head back against the wall .  

Manuel drank his brandy .  He felt sleepy himself .  It was too 
hot to go out into the town .  Besides there was nothing to do .  
He wanted to see Zurito .  He would go to sleep while he waited .  
He kicked his suitcase under the table to be sure it was there .  
Perhaps it would be better to put it back under the seat ,  
against the wall .  He leaned down and shoved it under .  



THE UNDEFEATED 217 

Then he leaned forward on the table and went to sleep .  

When he woke there was some one sitting across the table 
from him .  It was a big man with a heavy brown face like 
an Indian .  He had been sitting there some time .  He had 
waved the waiter away and sat reading the paper and 
occasionally looking down at Manuel ,  asleep ,  his head on the 
table .  He read the paper laboriously ,  forming the words with 
his lips as he read .  When it tired him he looked at Manuel .  
He sat heavily in the chair ,  his black Cordoba hat tipped 
forward .  

Manuel sat up and looked at him .  

Hello ,  Zurito ,  5 he said .  

c Hello ,  kid ,  the big man said .  

Ive been asleep ,  Manuel rubbed his forehead with the 
back of his fist .  

I thought maybe you were .  

Hows everything ?  

Good .  How is everything with you ?  

Not so good .  

They were both silent .  Zurito ,  the picador ,  looked at 
Manuels white face .  Manuel looked down at the picadors 
enormous hands folding the paper to put away in his pocket .  

I got a favour to ask you ,  Manos ,  Manuel said .  

Manosduros was Zuritos nickname .  He never heard it 
without thinking of his huge hands .  He put them forward 
on the table self - consciously .  

Lets have a drink ,  he said .  

Sure ,  said Manuel .  

The waiter came and went and came again .  He went out 
of the room looking back at the two men at the table .  

Whats the matter ,  Manolo ?  Zurito set down his glass .  

Would you pic two bulls for me to - morrow night ?  Manuel 
asked ,  looking up at Zurito across the table .  

c No ,  J said Zurito .  Tm not pic - ing .  5 

Manuel looked down at his glass .  He had expected that 
answer ;  now he had it .  Well ,  he had it .  



2i8 THE UNDEFEATED 

Tm sorry ,  Manolo ,  but Im not pic - ing .  Zurito looked at 
his hands .  

Thats all right ,  Manuel said .  

Tm too old ,  Zurito said .  

I just asked you ,  Manuel said .  

Is it the nocturnal to - morrow ?  

Thats it .  I figured if I had just one good pic ,  I could get 
away with it .  

How much are you getting ?  

Three hundred pesetas .  

I get more than that for pic - ing .  

I know ,  said Manuel .  I didnt have any right to ask 
you .  

What do you keep on doing it for ?  Zurito asked .  Why 
dont you cut off your coleta ,  Manolo ?  

I dont know ,  Manuel said .  

Youre pretty near as old as I am ,  Zurito said .  

*I dont know ,  Manuel said .  I got to do it .  If I can fix it 
so that I get an even break ,  thats all I want .  I got to stick 
with it ,  Manos .  

No ,  you dont .  

Yes .  I do .  Ive tried keeping away from it .  

I know how you feel .  But it isnt right .  You ought to get 
out and stay out .  

I cant do it .  Besides ,  Ive been going good lately .  

Zurito looked at his face .  

Youve been in the hospital .  

But I was going great when I got hurt .  

Zurito said nothing .  He tipped the cognac out of his 
saucer into his glass .  

The papers said they never saw a better faena ,  Manuel 
said .  

Zurito looked at him .  

You know when I get going Im good ,  Manuel said .  

Youre too old ,  the picador said .  

No ,  5 said Manuel .  Youre ten years older than I am .  



THE UNDEFEATED 219 

With me its different .  

Tm not too old ,  Manuel said .  

They sat silent ,  Manuel watching the picadors face .  

I was going great till I got hurt ,  Manuel offered .  

You ought to have seen me ,  Manos ,  Manuel said y 
reproachfully .  

I dont want to see you ,  Zurito said .  It makes me 
nervous .  

You havent seen me lately .  

Ive seen you plenty .  

Zurito looked at Manuel ,  avoiding his eyes .  

You ought to quit it ,  Manolo .  

I cant ,  Manuel said .  Im going good now ,  I tell you /  

Zurito leaned forward ,  his hands on the table .  

Listen .  Ill pic for you and if you dont go big to - morrow 
night ,  youll quit .  See ?  Will you do that ?  

Sure .  

Zurito leaned back ,  relieved .  

You got to quit ,  he said .  No monkey business .  You got 
to cut the coleta /  

I wont have to quit ,  Manuel said .  You watch me .  Ive 
got the stuff .  

Zurito stood up .  He felt tired from arguing .  

You got to quit ,  he said .  Til cut your coleta myself .  

No ,  you wont ,  Manuel said .  You wont have a chance /  

Zurito called the waiter .  

Come on /  said Zurito .  Come on up to the house .  

Manuel reached under the seat for his suitcase .  He was 
happy .  He knew Zurito would pic for him .  He was the best 
picador living .  It was all simple now .  

Come on up to the house and well eat ,  Zurito said .  

Manuel stood in the patio de caballos waiting for the 
Charlie Chaplins to be over .  Zurito stood beside him .  
Where they stood it was dark .  The high door that led into 
the bull - ring was shut .  Above them they heard a shout ,  then 



220 THE UNDEFEATED 

another shout of laughter .  Then there was silence .  Manuel 
liked the smell of the stables about the patio de caballos .  
It smelt good in the dark .  There was another roar from the 
arena and then applause ,  prolonged applause ,  going on and 
on .  

You ever seen these fellows ?  5 Zurito asked ,  big and 
looming beside Manuel in the dark .  

No ,  Manuel said .  

Theyre pretty funny ,  Zurito said .  He smiled to himself 
in the dark .  

The high ,  double ,  tight - fitting door into the bull - ring 
swung open and Manuel saw the ring in the hard light of the 
arc - lights ,  the plaza ,  dark all the way around ,  rising high ;  
around the edge of the ring were running and bowing two 
men dressed like tramps ,  followed by a third in the uniform 
of a hotel bell - boy who stooped and picked up the hats and 
canes thrown down on to the sand and tossed them back up 
into the darkness .  

The electric light went on in the patio .  

Til climb on to one of those ponies while you collect the 
kids ,  Zurito said .  

Behind them came the jingle of the mules ,  coming out to 
go into the arena and be hitched on to the dead bull .  

The members of the cuadrilla ,  who had been watching the 
burlesque from the runway between the barrera and the 
seats ,  came walking back and stood in a group talking ,  under 
the electric light in the patio .  A good - looking lad in a silver -  
and - orange suit came up to Manuel and smiled .  

Tm Hernandez ,  he said and put out his hand .  

Manuel shook it .  

Theyre regular elephants weve got to - night ,  the boy said 
cheerfully .  

Theyre big ones with horns /  Manuel agreed .  

You drew the worst lot ,  the boy said .  

Thats all right ,  Manuel said .  The bigger they are ,  the 
more meat for the poor .  



THE UNDEFEATED 221 

Where did you get that one ?  Hernandez grinned .  

Thats an old one /  Manuel said .  You line up your cuad -  
rilla ,  so I can see what Ive got .  

Youve got some good kids ,  Hernandez said .  He was very 
cheerful .  He had been on twice before in nocturnals and was 
beginning to gfet a following in Madrid .  He was happy the 
fight would start in a few minutes .  

Where are the pics ?  Manuel asked .  

Theyre back in the corrals fighting about who gets the 
beautiful horses /  Hernandez grinned .  

The mules came through the gate in a rush ,  the whips 
snapping ,  bells jangling and the young bull ploughing a 
furrow of sand .  

They formed up for the paseo as soon as the bull had gone 
through .  

Manuel and Hernandez stood in front .  The youths of 
the cuadrillas were behind ,  their heavy capes furled over 
their arms .  In back ,  the four picadors ,  mounted ,  hold -  
ing their steel - tipped push - poles erect in the half - dark of the 
corral .  

Its a wonder Retana wouldnt give us enough light to see 
the horses by /  one picador said .  

He knows well be happier if we dont get too good a look 
at these skins /  another pic answered .  

This thing Im on barely keeps me off the ground /  the 
first picador said .  

Well ,  theyre horses .  

Sure ,  theyre horses .  

They talked ,  sitting their gaunt horses in the dark .  

Zurito said nothing .  He had the only steady horse of the 
lot .  He had tried him ,  wheeling him in the corrals and he 
responded to the bit and the spurs .  He had taken the 
bandage off his right eye and cut the strings where they had 
tied his ears tight shut at the base .  He was a good ,  solid 
horse ,  solid on his legs .  That was all he needed .  He intended 
to ride him all through the corrida .  He had already ,  since he 



222 THE UNDEFEATED 

had mounted ,  sitting in the half - dark in the big ,  quilted 
saddle ,  waiting for the paseo ,  pioed through the whole 
corrida in his mind .  The other picadors went on talking on 
both sides of him .  He did not hear them .  

The two matadors stood together in front of their three 
peones ,  their capes furled over their left arms in the same 
fashion .  Manuel was thinking about the three lads in back of 
him .  They were all three Madrilenos ,  like Hernandez ,  boys 
about nineteen .  One of them ,  a gipsy ,  serious ,  aloof ,  and 
dark - faced ,  he liked the look of .  He turned .  

Whats your name ,  kid ?  he asked the gipsy .  

Tuentes ,  the gipsy said .  

Thats a good name ,  Manuel said .  

The gipsy smiled ,  showing his teeth .  

You take the bull and give him a little run when he comes 
out ,  Manuel said .  

All right ,  the gipsy said .  His face was serious .  He began 
to think about just what he would do .  

Here she goes ,  Manuel said to Hernandez .  

All right .  Well go .  

Heads up ,  swinging with the music ,  their right arms 
swinging free ,  they stepped out ,  crossing the sanded arena 
under the arc - lights ,  the cuadrillas opening out behind ,  the 
picadors riding after ,  behind came the bull - ring servants and 
the jingling mules .  The crowd applauded Hernandez as they 
marched across the arena .  Arrogant ,  swinging ,  they looked 
straight ahead as they marched .  

They bowed before the president ,  and the procession 
broke up into its component parts .  The bull - fighters went 
over to the barrera and changed their heavy mantles for the 
light fighting capes .  The mules went out .  The picadors 
galloped jerkily around the ring ,  and two rode out the gate 
they had come in by .  The servants swept the sand 
smooth .  

Manuel drank a glass of water poured for him by one of 
Retanas deputies ,  who was acting as his manager and sword -  



THE UNDEFEATED 223 

handler .  Hernandez came over from speaking with his own 
manager .  

You got a good hand ,  kid ,  5 Manuel complimented him .  

They like me ,  Hernandez said happily .  

How did the pasco go ?  5 Manuel asked Retana 5 s man .  

Like a wedding ,  5 said the handler .  Fine .  You came out 
like Joselito and Belmonte .  5 

Zurito rode by ,  a bulky equestrian statue .  He wheeled his 
horse and faced him toward the toril on the far .  side of the 
ring where the bull would come out .  It was strange under 
the arc - light .  He pic - cd in the hot afternoon sun for big 
money .  He didnt like this arc - light business .  He wished 
they would get started .  

Manuel went up to him .  

Pic him ,  Manos ,  5 he said .  Cut him down to size for 
me .  

Til pic him ,  kid ,  Zurito spat on the sand .  Til make him 
jump out of the ring .  

Lean on him ,  Manos ,  Manuel said .  

Til lean on him ,  Zurito said .  Whats holding it up ?  

Hes coming now ,  Manuel said .  

Zurito sat there ,  his feet in the box - stirrups ,  his great legs 
in the buckskin - covered armour gripping the horse ,  the reins 
in his left hand ,  the long pic held in his right hand ,  his broad 
hat well down over his eyes to shade them from the lights ,  
watching the distant door of the toril .  His horses ears 
quivered .  Zurito patted him with his left hand .  

The red door of the toril swung back and for a moment 
Zurito looked into the empty passageway far across the 
arena .  Then the bull came out in a rush ,  skidding on his four 
legs as he came out under the lights ,  then charging in a gallop ,  
moving softly in a fast gallop ,  silent except as he woofed 
through wide nostrils as he charged ,  glad to be free after the 
dark pen .  

In the first row of seats ,  slightly bored ,  leaning forward to 
write on the cement wall in front of his knees ,  the substitute 



224 THE UNDEFEATED 

bull - fight critic of El Heraldo scribbled: Campagnero ,  Negro ,  
42 ,  came out at 90 miles an hour with plenty of gas  

Manuel ,  leaning against the barrera ,  watching the bull ,  
waved his hand and the gipsy ran out ,  trailing his cape .  The 
bull ,  in full gallop ,  pivoted and charged the cape ,  his head 
down ,  his tail rising .  The gipsy moved in a zigzag ,  and as he 
passed ,  the bull caught sight of him and abandoned the cape 
to charge the man .  The gip sprinted and vaulted the red 
fence of the barrera as the bull struck it with his horns .  He 
tossed into it twice with his horns ,  banging into the wood 
blindly .  

The critic of El Heraldo lit a cigarette and tossed the match 
at the bull ,  then wrote in his note - book ,  large and with 
enough horns to satisfy the cash customers ,  Campagnero 
showed a tendency to cut into the terrain of the bull - fighters .  

Manuel stepped out on the hard sand as the bull banged 
into the fence .  Out of the corner of his eye he saw Zurito 
sitting the white horse close to the barrera ,  about a quarter 
of the way around the ring to the left .  Manuel held the 
cape close in front of him ,  a fold in each hand ,  and shouted 
at the bull .  Huh! Huh! The bull turned ,  seemed to brace 
against the fence as he charged in a scramble ,  driving into 
the cape as Manuel side - stepped ,  pivoted on his heels with 
the charge of the bull ,  and swung the cape just ahead of the 
horns .  At the end of the swing he was facing the bull again 
and held the cape in the same position close in front of his 
body ,  and pivoted again as the bull recharged .  Each time ,  
as he swung ,  the crowd shouted .  

Four times he swung with the bull ,  lifting the cape so it 
billowed full ,  and each time bringing the bull around to 
charge again .  Then ,  at the end of the fifth swing ,  he held the 
cape against his hip and pivoted ,  so the cape swung out like 
a ballet dancers skirt and wound the bull around himself 
like a belt ,  to step clear ,  leaving the bull facing Zurito on the 
white horse ,  come up and planted firm ,  the horse facing 
the bull ,  its ears forward ,  its lips nervous ,  Zurito ,  his hat over 



THE UNDEFEATED 225 

his eyes ,  leaning forward ,  the long pole sticking out before 
and behind in a sharp angle under his right arm ,  held half -  
way down ,  the triangular iron point facing the bull .  

El Heraldos second - string critic ,  dra , wing on his cigarette ,  
his eyes on the bull ,  wrote: the veteran Manolo designed 
a series of acceptable veronicas ,  ending in a very Belmontistic 
recorte that earned applause from the regulars ,  and we 
entered the tercio of the cavalry .  

Zurito sat his horse ,  measuring the distance between the 
bull and the end of the pic .  As he looked ,  the bull gathered 
himself together and charged ,  his eyes on the horses chest .  
As he lowered his head to hook ,  Zurito sunk the point of the 
pic in the swelling hump of muscle above the bulls shoulder ,  
leaned all his weight on the shaft ,  and with his left hand 
pulled the white horse into the air ,  front hoofs pawing ,  and 
swung him to the right as he pushed the bull under and 
through so the horns passed safely under the horses belly 
and the horse came down ,  quivering ,  the bulls tail brushing 
his chest as he charged the cape Hernandez offered him .  

Hernandez ran sideways ,  taking the bull* out and away 
with the cape ,  toward the other picador .  He fixed him with 
a swing of the cape ,  squarely facing the horse and rider ,  and 
stepped back .  As the bull saw the horse he charged .  The 
picadors lance slid along his back ,  and as the shock of the 
charge lifted the horse ,  the picador was already half - way out 
of the saddle ,  lifting his right leg clear as he missed with the 
lance and falling to the left side to keep the horse between 
him and the bull .  The horse ,  lifted and gored ,  crashed over 
with the bull driving into him ,  the picador gave a shove with 
his boots against the horse and lay clear ,  waiting to be lifted 
and hauled away and put on his feet .  

Manuel let the bull drive into the fallen horse ;  he was in no 
hurry ,  the picador was safe ;  besides ,  it did a picador like that 
good to worry .  Hed stay on longer next time .  Lousy pics! 
He looked across the sand at Zurito a little way out from the 
barrera ,  his horse rigid ,  waiting .  



226 THE UNDEFEATED 

Huh! he called to the bull ,  TomarP holding the cape in 
both hands so it would catch his eye .  The bull detached him -  
self from the horse and charged the cape ,  and Manuel ,  running 
sideways and holding the cape spread wide ,  stopped ,  swung on 
his heels ,  and brought the bull sharply around facing Zurito .  
Campagnero accepted a pair of varas for the death of one 
rosinante ,  with Hernandez and Manolo at the quites ,  El 
Heraldos critic wrote .  He pressed on the iron and clearly 
showed he was no horse - lover .  The veteran Zurito resur -  
rected some of his old stuff with the pike - pole ,  notably the 
suerte  

Ole! OleP the man sitting beside him shouted .  The shout 
was lost in the roar of the crowd ,  and he slapped the critic on 
the back .  The critic looked up to see Zurito ,  directly below 
him ,  leaning far out over his horse ,  the length of the pic 
rising in a sharp angle under his armpit ,  holding the pic 
almost by the point ,  bearing down with all his weight ,  hold -  
ing the bull off ,  the bull pushing and driving to get at the 
horse ,  and Zurito ,  far out ,  on top of him ,  holding him ,  hold -  
ing him ,  and slowly pivoting the horse against the pressure ,  
so that at last he was clear .  Zurito felt the moment when the 
horse was clear and the bull could come past ,  and relaxed 
the absolute steel lock of his resistance ,  and the triangular 
steel point of the pic ripped in the bulls hump of shoulder 
muscle as he tore loose to find Hernandezs cape before his 
muzzle .  He charged blindly into the cape and the boy took 
him out into the open arena .  

Zurito sat patting his horse and looking at the bull charg -  
ing the cape that Hernandez swung for him out under the 
bright light while the crowd shouted .  

You see that one ?  he said to Manuel .  

It was a wonder /  Manuel said .  

I got him that time ,  Zurito said .  Look at him now .  

At the conclusion of a closely turned pass of the cape the 
bull slid to his knees .  He was up at once ,  but far out across 
the sand Manuel and Zurito saw the shine of the pumping 



THE UNDEFEATED 227 

flow of blood ,  smooth against the black of the bulls shoulder .  

I got him that time ,  Zurito said .  

Hes a good bull ,  Manuel said .  

If they gave me another shot at him ,  Id kill him ,  Zurito 
said .  

Theyll change the thirds on us ,  Manuel said .  

Look at him now ,  Zurito said .  

I got to go over there ,  Manuel said ,  and started on a run 
for the other side of the ring ,  where the monos were leading a 
horse out by the bridle toward the bull ,  whacking him on the 
legs with rods and all ,  in a procession ,  trying to get him to -  
ward the bull ,  who stood ,  dropping his head ,  pawing ,  unable 
to make up his mind to charge .  

Zurito ,  sitting his horse ,  walking him toward the scene ,  not 
missing any detail ,  scowled .  

Finally the bull charged ,  the horse leaders ran for the 
barrera ,  the picador hit too far back ,  and the bull got under 
the horse ,  lifted him ,  threw him on to his back .  

Zurito watched .  The monos ,  in their red shirts ,  running 
out to drag the picador clear .  The picador ,  now on his feet ,  
swearing and flopping his arms .  Manuel and Hernandez 
standing ready with their capes .  And the bull ,  the great ,  
black bull ,  with a horse on his back ,  hooves dangling ,  the 
bridle caught in the horns .  Black bull with a horse on his 
back ,  staggering short - legged ,  then arching his neck and 
lifting ,  thrusting ,  charging to slide the horse off ,  horse sliding 
down .  Then the bull into a lunging charge at the cape 
Manuel spread for him .  

The bull was slower now ,  Manuel felt .  He was bleeding 
badly .  There was a sheen of blood all down his flank .  

Manuel offered him the cape again .  There he came ,  eyes 
open ,  ugly ,  watching the cape .  Manuel stepped to the side 
and raised his arms ,  tightening the cape ahead of the bull for 
the veronica .  

Now he was facing the bull .  Yes ,  his head was going down 
a little .  He was carrying it lower .  That was Zurito .  



2*8 THE UNDEFEATED 

Manuel flopped the cape ;  there he comes ;  he side - stepped 
and swung in another veronica .  Hes shooting awfully 
accurately ,  he thought .  Hes had enough fight ,  so hes 
watching now .  Hes hunting now .  Got his eye on me .  But 
I always give him the cape .  

He shook the cape at the bull ;  there he comes ;  he side -  
stepped .  Awful close that time .  I dont want to work that 
close to him .  

The edge of the cape was wet with blood where it had 
swept along the bulls back as he went by .  

All right ,  heres the last one .  

Manuel ,  facing the bull ,  having turned with him each 
charge ,  offered the cape with his two hands .  The bull looked 
at him .  Eyes watching ,  horns straight forward ,  the bull 
looked at him ,  watching .  

Huh! 5 Manuel said ,  Toro! and leaning back ,  swung the 
cape forward .  Here he comes .  He side - stepped ,  swung the cape 
in back of him ,  and pivoted ,  so the bull followed a swirl of cape 
and then was left with nothing ,  fixed by the pass ,  dominated 
by the cape .  Manuel swung the cape under his muzzle with 
one hand ,  to show the bull was fixed ,  and walked away .  

There was no applause .  

Manuel walked across the sand toward the barrera ,  while 
Zurito rode out of the ring .  The trumpet had blown to 
change the act to the planting of the banderillos while Manuel 
had been working with the bull .  He had not consciously 
noticed it .  The monos were spreading canvas over the two 
dead horses and sprinkling sawdust around them .  

Manuel came up to the barrera for a drink of water .  
Retanas man handed him the heavy porous jug .  

Fuentes ,  the tall gipsy ,  was standing holding a pair of 
banderillos ,  holding them together ,  slim ,  red sticks ,  fish - hook 
points out .  He looked at Manuel .  

Go on out there ,  5 Manuel said .  

The gipsy trotted out .  Manuel set down the jug and 
watched .  He wiped his face with his handkerchief .  



THE UNDEFEATED 229 

The critic of El Heraldo reached for the bottle of warm 
champagne that stood between his feet ,  took a drink ,  and 
finished his paragraph .  

c the aged Manolo rated no applause for a vulgar series 
of lances with the cape and we entered the third of the 
palings .  

Alone in the centre of the ring the bull stood ,  still fixed .  
Fuentes ,  tall ,  flat - backed ,  walking toward him arrogantly ,  
his arms spread out ,  the two slim ,  red sticks ,  one in each hand ,  
held by the fingers ,  points straight forward .  Fuentes walked 
forward .  Back of him and to one side was a peon with a cape .  
The bull looked at him and was no longer fixed .  

His eyes watched Fuentes ,  now standing still .  Now he 
leaned back ,  calling to him .  Fuentes twitched the two 
banderillos and the light on the steel points caught the 
bulls eye .  

His tail went up and he charged .  

He came straight ,  his eyes on the man .  Fuentes stood still ,  
leaning back ,  the banderillos pointing forward .  As the bull 
lowered his head to hook ,  Fuentes leaned backward ,  his arms 
came together and rose ,  his two hands touching ,  the 
banderillos two descending red lines ,  and leaning forward 
drove the points into the bulls shoulder ,  leaning far in over 
the bulls horns and pivoting on the two upright sticks ,  his 
legs tight together ,  his body curving to one side to let the 
bull pass .  

e Ole! from the crowd .  

The bull was hooking wildly ,  jumping like a trout ,  all four 
feet off the ground .  The red shaft of the banderillos tossed as 
he jumped .  

Manuel ,  standing at the barrera ,  noticed that he looked 
always to the right .  

Tell him to drop the next pair on the right ,  he said to 
the kid who started to run out to Fuentes with the new 
banderillos .  

A heavy hand fell on his shoulder .  It was Zurito .  



230 THE UNDEFEATED 

How do you feel ,  kid ?  he asked .  

Manuel was watching the bull .  

Zurito leaned forward on the barrera ,  leaning the weight 
of his body on his arms .  Manuel turned to him .  

Youre going good ,  Zurito said .  

Manuel shook his head .  He had nothing to do now until 
the next third .  The gipsy was very good with the banderillos .  
The bull would come to him in the next third in good shape .  
He was a good bull .  It had all been easy up to now .  The 
final stuff with the sword was all he worried over .  He did 
not really worry .  He did not even think about it .  But stand -  
ing there he had a heavy sense of apprehension .  He looked 
out at the bull ,  planning his faena ,  his work with the red 
cloth that was to reduce the bull ,  to make him manageable .  

The gipsy was walking out toward the bull again ,  walking 
heel - and - toe ,  insultingly ,  like a ballroom dancer ,  the red 
shafts of the banderillos twitching with his walk .  The bull 
watched him ,  not fixed now ,  hunting him ,  but waiting to get 
close enough so he could be sure of getting him ,  getting the 
horns into him .  

As Fuentcs walked forward the bull charged .  Fuentes ran 
across the quarter of a circle as the bull charged and ,  as he 
passed running backward ,  stopped ,  swung forward ,  rose on 
his toes ,  arm straight out ,  and sunk the banderillos straight 
down into the tight of the big shoulder muscles as the bull 
missed him .  

The crowd were wild about it .  

That kid wont stay in this night stuff long ,  Retanas man 
said to Zurito .  

Hes good ,  5 Zurito said .  

Watch him now .  

They watched .  

Fuentes was standing with his back against the barrera .  
Two of the cuadrilla were back of him ,  with their capes ready 
to flop over the fence to distract the bull .  

The bull ,  with his tongue out ,  his barrel heaving ,  was 



THE UNDEFEATED * 3 t 

watching the gipsy .  He thought he had him now .  Back 
against the red planks .  Only a short charge away .  The bull 
watched him .  

The gipsy bent back ,  drew back his arms ,  the banderillos 
pointing at the bull .  He called to the bull ,  stamped one foot .  
The bull was suspicious .  He wanted the man .  No more 
barbs in the shoulder .  

Fuentcs walked a little closer to the bull .  Bent back .  Called 
again .  Somebody in the crowd shouted a warning .  

Hes too damn close ,  Zurito said .  

Watch him ,  Retanas man said .  

Leaning back ,  inciting the bull with the banderillos ,  
Fuentes jumped ,  both feet off the ground .  As he jumped the 
bulls tail rose and he charged .  Fuentes came down on his 
toes ,  arms straight out ,  whole body arching forward ,  and 
drove the shafts straight down as he swung his body clear of 
the right horn .  

The bull crashed into the barrera where the flopping capes 
had attracted his eye as he lost the man .  

The gipsy came running along the barrera toward Manuel ,  
taking the applause of the crowd .  His vest was ripped where 
he had not quite cleared the point of the horn .  He was 
happy about it ,  showing it to the spectators .  He made the 
tour of the ring .  Zurito saw him go by ,  smiling ,  pointing at 
his vest .  He smiled .  

Somebody else was planting the last pair of banderillos .  
Nobody was paying any attention .  

Retanas man tucked a baton inside the red cloth of a 
muleta ,  folded the cloth over it ,  and handed it over the 
barrera to Manuel .  He reached in the leather sword - case ,  
took out a sword ,  and holding it by its leather scabbard ,  
reached it over the fence to Manuel .  Manuel pulled the 
blade out by the red hilt and the scabbard fell limp .  

He looked at Zurito .  The big man saw he was sweating ,  

Now you get him ,  kid ,  Zurito said .  

Manuel nodded .  



232 THE UNDEFEATED 

Hes in good shape /  Zurito said .  

Just like you want him ,  5 Retanas man assured him .  

Manuel nodded .  

The trumpeter ,  up under the roof ,  blew for the final act ,  
and Manuel walked across the arena toward where ,  up in the 
dark boxes ,  the president must be .  

In the front row of seats the substitute bull - fight critic of 
El Heraldo took a long drink of the warm champagne .  He 
had decided it was not worth while to write a running story 
and would write up the corrida back in the office .  What the 
hell was it anyway ?  Only a nocturnal .  If he missed any -  
thing he would get it out of the morning papers .  He took 
another drink of the champagne .  He had a date at Maxims 
at twelve .  Who were these bull - fighters anyway ?  Kids and 
bums .  A bunch of bums .  He put his pad of paper in his 
pocket and looked over toward Manuel ,  standing very much 
alone in the ring ,  gesturing with his hat in a salute toward a 
box he could not see high up in the dark plaza .  Out in the 
ring the bull stood quiet ,  looking at nothing .  

I dedicate this bull to you ,  Mr .  President ,  and to the public 
of Madrid ,  the most intelligent and generous of the world ,  
was what Manuel was saying .  It was a formula .  He said it 
all .  It was a little long for nocturnal use .  

He bowed at the dark ,  straightened ,  tossed his hat over his 
shoulder ,  and ,  carrying the muleta in his left hand and the 
sword in his right ,  walked out toward the bull .  

Manuel walked toward the bull .  The bull looked at him ;  
his eyes were quick .  Manuel noticed the way the banderillos 
hung down on his left shoulder and the steady sheen of blood 
from Zuritos pic - ing .  He noticed the way the bulls feet 
were .  As he walked forward ,  holding the muleta in his left 
hand and the sword in his right ,  he watched the bulls feet .  
The bull could not charge without gathering his feet together .  
Now he stood square on them ,  dully .  

Manuel walked toward him ,  watching his feet .  This was 
all right .  He could do this .  He must work to get the bulls 



THE UNDEFEATED 233 

head down ,  so he could go in past the horns and kill him .  
He did not think about the sword ,  not about killing the bull .  
He thought about one thing at a time .  The coming things 
oppressed him ,  though .  Walking forward ,  watching the 
bulls feet ,  he saw successively his eyes ,  his wet muzzle ,  and 
the wide ,  forward - pointing spread of his horns .  The bull 
had light circles about his eyes .  His eyes watched Manuel .  
He felt he was going to get this little one with the white 
face .  

Standing still now and spreading the red cloth of the 
muleta with the sword ,  pricking the point into the cloth so 
that the sword ,  now held in his left hand ,  spread the red 
flannel like the jib of a boat ,  ManueL noticed the points of 
the bulls horns .  One of them was splintered from banging 
against the barrera .  The other was sharp as a porcupine 
quill .  Manuel noticed while spreading the muleta that the 
white base of the horn was stained red .  While he noticed 
these things he did not lose sight of the bulls feet .  The bull 
watched Manuel steadily .  

Hes on the defensive now ,  Manuel thought .  Hes reserv -  
ing himself .  Ive got to bring him out of that and get his 
head down .  Always get his head down .  Zurito had his head 
down once ,  but hes come back .  Hell bleed when I start him 
going and that will bring it down .  

Holding the muleta ,  with the sword in his left hand widen -  
ing it in front of him ,  he called to the bull .  

The bull looked at him .  

He leaned back insultingly and shook the widespread 
flannel .  

The bull saw the muleta .  It was a bright scarlet under the 
arc - light .  The bulls legs tightened .  

Here he comes .  Whoosh! Manuel turned as the bull came 
and raised the muleta so that it passed over the bulls horns 
and swept down his broad back from head to tail .  The bull 
had gone clean up in the air with the charge .  Manuel had 
not moved .  



234 THE UNDEFEATED 

At the end of the pass the bull turned like a cat coming 
around a corner and faced Manuel .  

He was on the offensive again .  His heaviness was gone .  
Manuel noted the fresh blood shining down the black 
shoulder and dripping down the bulls leg .  He drew the 
sword out of the muleta and held it in his right hand .  The 
muleta held low down in his left hand ,  leaning toward the 
left ,  he called to the bull .  The bulls legs tightened ,  his eyes 
on the muleta .  Here he comes ,  Manuel thought .  Yuh! 

He swung with the charge ,  sweeping the muleta ahead of 
the bull ,  his feet firm ,  the sword following the curve ,  a point 
of light under the arcs .  

The bull recharged as the pase natural finished and Manuel 
raised the muleta for a pase de pecho .  Firmly planted ,  the 
bull came by his chest under the raised muleta .  Manuel 
leaned his head back to avoid the clattering banderillo 
shafts .  The hot ,  black bull body touched his chest as it passed .  

Too damn close ,  Manuel thought .  Zurito ,  leaning on the 
barrera ,  spoke rapidly to the gipsy ,  who trotted out toward 
Manuel with a cape .  Zurito pulled his hat down low and 
looked out across the arena at Manuel .  

Manuel was facing the bull again ,  the muleta held low and 
to the left .  The bulls head was down as he watched the 
muleta .  

If it was Belmonte doing that stuff ,  theyd go crazy /  
Retanas man said .  

Zurito said nothing .  He was watching Manuel out in the 
centre of the arena .  

Where did the boss dig this fellow up ?  5 Retanas man 
asked .  

Out of the hospital ,  Zurito said .  

Thats where hes going damn quick ,  Retanas man said .  

Zurito turned on him .  

Knock on that ,  he said ,  pointing to the barrera .  

I was just kidding ,  man ,  Retanas man said .  

Knock on the wood .  



THE UNDEFEATED 235 

Retanas man leaned forward and knocked three times 
on the barrera .  

Watch the faena ,  Zurito said .  

Out in the centre of the ring ,  under the lights ,  Manuel was 
kneeling ,  facing the bull ,  and as he raised the muleta in both 
hands the bull charged ,  tail up .  

Manuel swung his body clear and ,  as the bull recharged ,  
brought around the muleta in a half - circle that pulled the bull 
to his knees .  

Why ,  that ones a great bull - fighter ,  Retanas man said .  

No ,  hes not ,  said Zurito .  

Manuel stood up and ,  the muleta in his left hand ,  the 
sword in his right ,  acknowledged the applause from the 
dark plaza .  

The bull had humped himself up from his knees and stood 
waiting ,  his head hung low .  

Zurito spoke to two of the other lads of the cuadrilla and 
they ran out to stand back of Manuel with their capes .  There 
were four men back of him now .  Hernandez had followed 
him since he first came out with the muleta .  Fuentes stood 
watching ,  his cape held against his body ,  tall ,  in repose ,  
watching ,  lazy - eyed .  Now the two came up .  Hernandez 
motioned them to stand one at each side .  Manuel stood 
alone ,  facing the bull .  

Manuel waved back the men with the capes .  Stepping back 
cautiously ,  they saw his face was white and sweating .  

Didnt they know enough to keep back ?  Did they want to 
catch the bulls eye with the capes after he was fixed and 
ready ?  He had enough to worry about without that kind of 
thing .  

The bull was standing ,  his four feet square ,  looking at the 
muleta .  Manuel furled the muleta in his left hand .  The 
bulls eyes watched it .  His body was heavy on his feet .  He 
carried his head low ,  but not too low .  

Manuel lifted the muleta at him .  The bull did not move .  
Only his eyes watched .  



236 THE UNDEFEATED 

Hes all lead ,  Manuel thought .  Hes all square .  Hes 
framed right .  Hell take it .  

He thought in bull - fight terms .  Sometimes he had a 
thought and the particular piece of slang would not come 
into his mind and he could not realize the thought .  His 
instincts and his knowledge worked automatically ,  and his 
brain worked slowly and in words .  He knew all about bulls .  
He did not have to think about them .  He just did the right 
thing .  His eyes noted things and his body performed the 
necessary measures without thought .  If he thought about it ,  
he would be gone .  

Now ,  facing the bull ,  he was conscious of many things at 
the same time .  There were the horns ,  the one splintered ,  the 
other smoothly sharp ,  the need to profile himself toward the 
left horn ,  lance himself short and straight ,  lower the muleta ,  
so the bull would follow it ,  and ,  going in over the horns ,  put 
the sword all the way into a little spot about as big as a five -  
peseta piece straight in back of the neck ,  between the sharp 
pitch of the bulls shoulders .  He must do all this and must 
then come out from between the horns .  He was conscious 
he must do all this ,  but his only thought was in words: Corto 
y derecho .  

Corto y derecho ,  he thought ,  furling the muleta .  Short 
and straight .  Corto y derecho ,  he drew the word out of the 
muleta ,  profiled on the splintered left horn ,  dropped the 
muleta across his body ,  so his right hand with the sword on 
the level with his eye made the sign of the cross ,  and ,  rising 
on his toes ,  sighted along the dipping blade of the sword at 
the spot high up between the bulls shoulders .  

Corto y derecho he launched himself on the bull .  

There was a shock ,  and he felt himself go up in the air .  He 
pushed on the sword as he went up and over ,  and it flew out 
of his hand .  He hit the ground and the bull was on him .  
Manuel ,  lying on the ground ,  kicked at the bulls muzzle with 
his slippered feet .  Kicking ,  kicking ,  the bull after him ,  
missing him in his excitement ,  bumping him with his head ,  



THE UNDEFEATED 237 

driving the horns into the sand .  Kicking like a man keeping 
a ball in the air ,  Manuel kept the bull from getting a clean 
thrust at him .  

Manuel felt the wind on his back from the capes 
flopping at the bull ,  and then the bull was gone ,  gone 
over him in a rush .  Dark ,  as his belly went over .  Not even 
stepped on .  

Manuel stood up and picked up the muleta .  Fuentes 
handed him the sword .  It was bent where it had struck the 
shoulder - blade .  Manuel straightened it on his knee and ran 
toward the bull ,  standing now beside one of the dead horses* 
As he ran ,  his jacket flopped where it had been ripped under 
his armpit .  

Get him out of there ,  Manuel shouted to the gipsy .  The 
bull had smelled the blood of the dead horse and ripped into 
the canvas cover with his horns .  He charged Fuentess cape ,  
with the canvas hanging from his splintered horn ,  and the 
crowd laughed .  Out in the ring ,  he tossed his head to rid 
himself of the canvas .  Hernandez ,  running up from behind 
him ,  grabbed the end of the canvas and neatly lifted it off 
the horn .  

The bull followed it in a half - charge and stopped still .  He 
was on the defensive again .  Manuel was walking toward him 
with the sword and muleta .  Manuel swung the muleta 
before him .  The bull would not charge .  

Manuel profiled toward the bull ,  sighting along the 
dipping blade of the sword .  The bull was motionless ,  
seemingly dead on his feet ,  incapable of another charge .  

Manuel rose to his toes ,  sighting along the steel ,  and 
charged .  

Again there was the shock and he felt himself being borne 
back in a rush ,  to strike hard on the sand .  There was no 
chance of kicking this time .  The bull was on top of him .  
Manuel lay as though dead ,  his head on his arms ,  and the 
bull bumped him .  Bumped his back ,  bumped his face in the 
sand .  He felt the horn go into the sand between his folded 



238 THE UNDEFEATED 

arms .  The bull hit him in the small of the back .  His face 
drove into the sand .  The horn drove through one of his 
sleeves and the bull ripped it off .  Manuel was tossed clear 
and the bull followed the capes .  

Manuel got up ,  found the sword and muleta ,  tried the 
point of the sword with his thumb ,  and then ran toward the 
barrcra for a new sword .  

Retanas man handed him the sword over the edge of the 
barrera .  

Wipe off your face /  he said .  

Manuel ,  running again toward the bull ,  wiped his bloody 
face with his handkerchief .  He had not seen Zurito .  Where 
was Zurito ?  

The cuadrilla had stepped away from the bull and waited 
with their capes .  The bull stood ,  heavy and dull again after 
the action .  

Manuel walked toward him with the muleta .  He stopped 
and shook it .  The bull did not respond .  He passed it right 
and left ,  left and right before the bulls muzzle .  The bulls 
eyes watched it and turned with the swing ,  but he would not 
charge .  He was waiting for Manuel .  

Manuel was worried .  There was nothing to do but go in .  
Corto y derecho .  He profiled close to the bull ,  crossed the 
muleta in front of his body and charged .  As he pushed in the 
sword ,  he jerked his body to the left to clear the horn .  The 
bull passed him and the sword shot up in the air ,  twinkling 
under the arc - lights ,  to fall red - hiked on the sand .  

Manuel ran over and picked it up .  It was bent and he 
straightened it over his knee .  

As he came running toward the bull ,  fixed again now ,  he 
passed Hernandez standing with his cape .  

Hes all bone ,  the boy said encouragingly .  

Manuel nodded ,  wiping his face .  He put the bloody 
handkerchief in his pocket .  

There was the bull .  He was close to the barrera now .  
Damn him .  Maybe he was all bone .  Maybe there was not 



THE UNDEFEATED 239 

any place for the sword to go in .  The hell there wasnt! 
Hed show them .  

He tried a pass with the muleta and the bull did not move .  
Manuel chopped the muleta back and forth in front of the 
bull .  Nothing doing .  

He furled the muleta ,  drew the sword out ,  profiled and 
drove it on the bull .  He felt the sword buckle as he shoved it 
in ,  leaning his weight on it ,  and then it shot high in the air ,  
end - over - ending into the crowd .  Manuel had jerked clear as 
the sword jumped .  

The first cushions thrown down out of the dark missed him .  
Then one hit him in the face ,  his bloody face looking toward 
the crowd .  They were coming down fast .  Spotting the sand .  
Somebody threw an empty champagne bottle from close 
range .  It hit Manuel on the foot .  He stood there watching 
the dark ,  where the things were coming from .  Then some -  
thing whisked through the air and struck by him .  Manuel 
leaned over and picked it up .  It was his sword .  He straightened 
it over his knee and gestured with it to the crowd .  

Thank you ,  he said .  Thank you! 

Oh ,  the dirty bastards! Dirty bastards! Oh ,  the lousy ,  
dirty bastards! He kicked into a cushion as he ran .  

There was the bull .  The same as ever .  All right ,  you dirty ,  
lousy bastard! 

Manuel passed the muleta in front of the bulls black 
muzzle .  

Nothing doing .  

You wont! All right .  He stepped close and jammed the 
sharp peak of the muleta into the bulls damp muzzle .  

The bull was on him as he jumped back and as he tripped 
on a cushion he felt the horn go into him ,  into his side .  He 
grabbed the horn with his two hands and rode backward ,  
holding tight on to the place .  The bull tossed him and he was 
clear .  He lay still .  It was all right .  The bull was gone .  

He got up coughing and feeling broken and gone .  The 
dirty bastards! 



2 4 o THE UNDEFEATED 

Give me the sword /  he shouted .  Give me the stuff .  

Fuentes came up with the muleta and the sword .  

Hernandez put his arm around him .  

Go on to the infirmary ,  man /  he said .  Dont be a damn 
fool .  5 

Get away from me /  Manuel said .  Get to hell away from 
me .  

He twisted free .  Hernandez shrugged his shoulders .  
Manuel ran toward the bull .  

There was the bull standing ,  heavy ,  firmly planted .  

All right ,  you bastard! Manuel drew the sword out of the 
muleta ,  sighted with the same movement ,  and flung himself 
on to the bull .  He felt the sword go in all the way .  Right up 
to the guard .  Four fingers and his thumb into the bull .  The 
blood was hot on his knuckles ,  and he was on top of the bull .  

The bull lurched with him as he lay on ,  and seemed to 
sink ;  then he was standing clear .  He looked at the bull going 
down slowly over on his side ,  then suddenly four feet in the 
air .  

Then he gestured at the crowd ,  his hand warm from the 
bull blood .  

All right ,  you bastards! He wanted to say something ,  but 
he started to cough .  It was hot and choking .  He looked 
down for the muleta .  He must go over and salute the presi -  
dent .  President hell! He was sitting down looking at some -  
thing .  It was the bull .  His four feet up .   .  Thick tongue out .  
Things crawling around on his belly and under his legs .  
Crawling where the hair was thin .  Dead bull .  To hell with 
the bull! To hell with them all! He started to get to his feet 
and commenced to cough .  He sat down again ,  coughing .  
Somebody came and pushed him up .  

They carried him across the ring to the infirmary ,  running 
with him across the sand ,  standing blocked at the gate as the 
mules came in ,  then around under the dark passageway ,  men 
grunting as they took him up the stairway ,  and then laid him 
down .  



THE UNDEFEATED 241 

The doctor and two men in white were waiting for him .  
They laid him out on the table .  They were cutting away his 
shirt .  Manuel felt tired .  His whole chest felt scalding inside .  
He started to cough and they held something to his mouth .  
Everybody was very busy .  

There was an electric light in his eyes .  He shut his eyes .  

He heard someone coming very heavily up the stairs .  Then 
he did not hear it .  Then he heard a noise far off .  That was 
the crowd .  Well ,  somebody would have to kill his other bull .  
They had cut away all his shirt .  The doctor smiled at him .  
There was Retana .  

Hello ,  Retana! Manuel said .  He could not hear his voice .  

Retana smiled at him and said something .  Manuel could 
not hear it .  

Zurito stood beside the table ,  bending over where the 
doctor was working .  He was in his picador clothes ,  without 
his hat .  

Zurito said something to him .  Manuel could not hear it .  

Zurito was speaking to Retana .  One of the men in white 
smiled and handed Retana a pair of scissors .  Retana gave 
them to Zurito .  Zurito said something to Manuel .  He could 
not hear it .  

To hell with this operating - table .  Hed been on plenty of 
operating - tables before .  He was not going to die .  There 
would be a priest if he was going to die .  

Zurito was saying something to him .  Holding up the 
scissors .  

That was it .  They were going to cut off his coleta .  They 
were going to cut off his pigtail .  

Manuel sat up on the operating - table .  The doctor stepped 
back ,  angry .  Someone grabbed him and held him .  

You couldnt do a thing like that ,  Manos ,  he said .  

He heard suddenly ,  clearly ,  Zuritos voice .  

Thats all right ,  Zurito said .  I wont do it .  I was joking /  

I was going good ,  Manuel said .  I didnt have any luck .  
That was all .  



 - 2 4 2 THE UNDEFEATED 

Manuel lay back .  They had put something over his face .  
It was all familiar .  He inhaled deeply .  He felt very tired .  
He was very ,  very tired .  They took the thing away from his 
face .  

*I was going good ,  Manuel said weakly ,  I was going 
great .  

Retana looked at Zurito and started for the door .  

Til stay here with him /  Zurito said .  

Retana shrugged his shoulders .  

Manuel opened his eyes and looked at Zurito .  

Wasnt I going good ,  Manos ?  he asked ,  for confirmation .  

Sure ,  said Zurito .  You were going great .  

The doctors assistant put the cone over Manuels face and 
he inhaled deeply .  Zurito stood awkwardly > watching .  



IN ANOTHER COUNTRY 

IN the fall the war was always there ,  but we did not go to it 
any more .  It Was cold in the fall in Milan and the dark came 
very early .  Then the electric lights came on ,  and it was 
pleasant along the streets looking in the windows .  There was 
much game hanging outside the shops ,  and the snow 
powdered in the fur of the foxes and the wind blew their 
tails .  The deer hung stiff and heavy and empty ,  and small 
birds blew in the wind and the wind turned their feathers .  It 
was a cold fall and the wind came down from the mountains .  

We were all at the hospital every afternoon ,  and there were 
different ways of walking across the town through the dusk to 
the hospital .  Two of the ways were alongside canals ,  but they 
were long .  Always ,  though ,  you crossed a bridge across a 
canal to enter the hospital .  There was a choice of three 
bridges .  On one of them a woman sold roasted chestnuts .  
It was warm ,  standing in front of her charcoal fire ,  and the 
chestnuts were warm afterward in your pocket .  The hospital 
was very old and very beautiful ,  and you entered through a 
gate and walked across a courtyard and out a gate on the 
tothdt ? * side .  There were usually funerals starting from the 
courtyard .  Beyond the old hospital were the new brick 
pavilions ,  and there we met every afternoon and were all 
very polite and interested in what was the matter ,  and sat 
in the machines that were to make so much difference .  

The doctor came up to the machine where I was sitting 
and said: What did you like best to do before the war ?  Did 
you practise a sport ?  

I said: Yes ,  football .  

Good ,  he said .  You will be able to play football again 
better than ever .  

My knee did not bend and the leg dropped straight from 
the knee to the ankle without a calf ,  and the machine was to 

243 



244 IN ANOTHER COUNTRY 

bend the knee and make it move as in riding a tricycle .  But 
it did not bend yet ,  and instead the machine lurched when 
it came to the bending part .  The doctor said: That will all 
pass .  You are a fortunate young man .  You will play football 
again like a champion .  

In the next machine was a major who had a little hand like 
a babys .  He winked at me when the doctor examined his 
hand ,  which was between two leather straps that bounced up 
and down and flapped the stiff fingers ,  and said: And will I 
too play football ,  captain - doctor ?  He had been a very great 
fencer ,  and before the war the greatest fencer in Italy .  

The doctor went to his office in a back room and brought a 
photograph which showed a hand that had been withered 
almost as small as the majors ,  before it had taken a machine 
course ,  and after was a little larger .  The major held the 
photograph with his good hand and looked at it very carefully .  
A wound ?  he asked .  

An industrial accident ,  the doctor said .  

Very interesting ,  very interesting ,  the major said ,  and 
handed it back to the doctor .  

You have confidence ?  

No ,  said the major .  

There were three boys who came each day who were about 
the same age I was .  They were all three from Milan ,  and one 
of them was to be a lawyer ,  and one was to be a painter ,  and 
one had intended to be a soldier ,  and after we were finished 
with the machines ,  sometimes we walked back together to the 
Cafe Cova ,  which was next door to the Scala .  We walked the 
short way through the communist quarter because we were 
four together .  The people hated us because we were officers ,  
and from a wine - shop someone called out ,  A basso gli 
ufficiali! as we passed .  Another boy who walked with us 
sometimes and made us five wore a black silk handkerchief 
across his face because 1 he had no nose then and his face was 
to be rebuilt .  He had gone out to the front from the military 
academy and been wounded within an hour after he had 



IN ANOTHER COUNTRY 245 

gone into the front line for the first time .  They rebuilt his 
face ,  but he came from a very old family and they could 
never get the nose exactly right .  He went to South America 
and worked in a bank .  But this was a long time ago ,  and 
then we did not any of us know how it was going to be after -  
ward .  We only knew then that there was always the war ,  
but that we were not going to it any more .  

We all had the same medals ,  except the boy with the black 
silk bandage across his face ,  and he had not been at the front 
long enough to get any medals .  The tall boy with a very pale 
face who was to be a lawyer had been a lieutenant of Arditi 
and had three medals of the sort we each had only one of .  
He had lived a very long time with death and was a little 
detached .  We were all a little detached ,  and there was 
nothing that held us together except that we met every 
afternoon at the hospital .  Although ,  as we walked to the 
Cova through the tough part of town ,  walking in the dark ,  
with light and singing coming out of the wineshops ,  and 
sometimes having to walk into the street when the men and 
women would crowd together on the sidewalk so that we 
would have had to jostle them to get by ,  we felt held together 
by there being something that had happened that they ,  the 
people who disliked us ,  did not understand .  

We ourselves all understood the Cova ,  where it was rich 
and warm and not too brightly lighted ,  and noisy and 
smoky at certain hours ,  and there were always girls at the 
tables and the illustrated papers on a rack on the wall .  The 
girls at the Cova were very patriotic ,  and I found that the 
most patriotic people in Italy were the cafe girls and I 
believe they are still patriotic .  

The boys at first were very polite about my medals and 
asked me what I had done to get them .  I showed them the 
papers ,  which were written in very beautiftil language and 
full offratellanza and abnegazione ,  but which really said ,  with 
the adjectives removed ,  that I had been given the medals 
because I was an American .  After that their manner 



246 IN ANOTHER COUNTRY 

changed a little toward me ,  although I was their friend 
against outsiders .  I was a friend ,  but I was never really one 
of them ,  after they had read the citations ,  because it had been 
different with them and they had done very different things 
to get their medals .  I had been wounded ,  it was true ;  but 
we all knew that being wounded ,  after all ,  was really an 
accident .  I was never ashamed of the ribbons ,  though ,  and 
sometimes ,  after the cocktail hour ,  I would imagine myself 
having done all the things they had done to get their medals ;  
but walking home at night through the empty streets with 
the cold wind and all the shops closed ,  trying to keep near 
the street lights ,  I knew that I would never have done such 
things ,  and I was very much afraid to die ,  and often lay in 
bed at night by myself ,  afraid to die and wondering how I 
would be when I went back to the front again .  

The three with the medals were like hunting - hawks ;  and I 
was not a hawk ,  although I might seem a hawk to those who 
had never hunted ;  they ,  the three ,  knew better and so we 
drifted apart .  But I stayed good friends with the boy who 
had been wounded his first day at the front ,  because he 
would never know now how he would have turned out ;  so he 
could never be accepted either ,  and I liked him because I 
thought perhaps he would not have turned out to be a hawk 
either .  

The major ,  who had been the great fencer ,  did not believe 
in bravery ,  and spent much time while we sat in the machines 
correcting my grammar .  He had complimented me on how 
I spoke Italian ,  and we talked together very easily .  One day 
I had said that Italian seemed such an easy language to me 
that I could not take a great interest in it ;  everything was 
so easy to say .  Ah ,  yes ,  the major said .  Why ,  then ,  do you 
not take up the use of grammar ?  So we took up the use of 
grammar ,  and soon Italian was such a difficult language 
that I was afraid to talk to him until I had the grammar 
straight in my mind .  

The major came very regularly to the hospital .  I do not 



IN ANOTHER COUNTRY 247 

think he ever missed a day ,  although I am sure he did not 
believe in the machines .  There was a time when none of us 
believed in the machines ,  and one day the major said it was 
all nonsense .  The machines were new then and it was we 
who were to prove them .  It was an idiotic idea ,  he said ,  a 
theory ,  like another .  I had not learned my grammar ,  and 
he said I was a stupid impossible disgrace ,  and he was a fool 
to have bothered with me .  He was a small man and he sat 
straight up in his chair with his right hand thrust into the 
machine and looked straight ahead at the wall while the 
straps thumped up and down with his fingers in them .  

What will you do when the war is over ,  if it is over ?  he 
asked me .  Speak grammatically! 

I will go to the States .  

Are you married ?  

No ,  but I hope to be .  

The more of a fool you are ,  he said .  He seemed very 
angry .  A man must not marry .  

Why ,  Signor Maggiore ?  

Dont call me  " Signor Maggiore "  .  

Why must not a man marry ?  

He cannot marry .  He cannot marry ,  he said angrily .  
If he is to lose everything ,  he should not place himself in a 
position to lose that .  He should not place himself in a position 
to lose .  He should find things he cannot lose .  

He spoke very angrily and bitterly ,  and looked straight 
ahead while he talked .  

But why should he necessarily lose it ?  

Hell lose it ,  the major said .  He was looking at the wall .  
Then he looked down at the machine and jerked his little 
hand out from between the straps and slapped it hard against 
his thigh .  Hell lose it ,  he almost shouted .  Dont argue 
with me! Then he called to the attendant who ran the 
machines .  Come and turn this damned thing off .  

He went back into the other room for the light treatment 
and the massage .  Then I heard him ask the doctor if he 



1248 IN ANOTHER COUNTRY 

might use his telephone and he shut the door .  When he 
came back into the room ,  I was sitting in another machine .  
He was wearing his cape and had his cap on ,  and he came 
directly toward my machine and put his arm on my shoulder .  

I am so sorry ,  he said ,  and patted me on the shoulder 
with his good hand .  I would not be rude .  My wife has just 
died .  You must forgive me .  

<Oh  I said ,  feeling sick for him .  I am so sorry .  

He stood there biting his lower lip .  It is very difficult ,  
he said .  I cannot resign myself .  

He looked straight past me and out through the window .  
Then he began to cry .  I am utterly unable to resign myself ,  
he said and choked .  And then crying ,  his head up looking 
at nothing ,  carrying himself straight and soldierly ,  with 
tears on both his checks and biting his lips ,  he walked past 
the machines and out the door .  

The doctor told me that the majors wife ,  who was very 
young and whom he had not married until he was definitely 
invalided out of the war ,  had died of pneumonia .  She had 
been sick only a few days .  No one expected her to die .  The 
major did not come to the hospital for three days .  Then he 
came at the usual hour ,  wearing a black band on the sleeve 
of his uniform .  When he came back ,  there were large 
framed photographs around the wall ,  of all sorts of wounds 
before and after they had been cured by the machines .  In 
front of the machine the major used were three photographs 
of hands like his that were completely restored .  I do not 
know where the doctor got them .  I always understood we 
were the first to use the machines .  The photographs did not 
make much difference to the major because he only looked 
out of the window .  



AN ALPINE IDYLL 

IT was hot coining down into the valley even in the early 
morning .  The sun melted the snow from the skis we were 
carrying and dried the wood .  It was spring in the valley but 
the sun was very hot .  We came along the road into Galtur 
carrying our skis and rucksacks .  As we passed the church -  
yard a burial was just over .  I said ,  Griiss Gott ,  to the priest 
as he walked past us coming out of the churchyard .  The 
priest bowed .  

Its funny a priest never speaks to you ,  5 John said .  

Youd think theyd like to say  " Griiss Gott "  .  

They never answer ,  John said .  

We stopped in the road and watched the sexton shovelling 
in the new earth .  A peasant with a black beard and high 
leather boots stood beside the grave .  The sexton stopped 
shovelling and straightened his back .  The peasant in the 
high boots took the spade from the sexton and went on filling 
in the grave spreading the earth evenly as a man spread -  
ing manure in a garden .  In the bright May morning the 
grave - filling looked unreal .  I could not imagine anyone 
being dead .  

Imagine being buried on a day like this /  I said to John .  
 I wouldnt like it .  

Well ,  I said ,  we dont have to do it .  

We went on up the road past the houses of the town to the 
inn .  We had been skiing in the Silvretta for a month ,  and it 
was good to be down in the valley .  In the Silvretta the skiing 
had been all right ,  but it was spring skiing ,  the snow was good 
only in the early morning and again in the evening .  The 
rest of the time it was spoiled by the sun .  We were both tired 
of the sun .  You could not get away from the sun .  The only 
shadows were made by rocks or by the hut that was built 
under the protection of a rock beside a glacier ,  and in the 



318 AN ALPINE IDYLL 

shade the sweat froze in your underclothing .  You could not 
sit outside the hut without dark glasses .  It was pleasant to 
be burned black but the sun had been very tiring .  You 
could not rest in it .  I was glad to be down away from snow .  
It was too late in the spring to be up in the Silvretta .  I was 
a little tired of skiing .  We had stayed too long .  I could taste 
the snow water we had been drinking melted off the tin roof 
of the hut .  The taste was a part of the way I felt about skiing .  
I was glad there were other things beside skiing ,  and I was 
glad to be down ,  away from the unnatural high mountain 
spring ,  into this May morning in the valley .  

The innkeeper sat on the porch of the inn ,  his chair tipped 
back against the wall .  Beside him sat the cook .  

Ski - heil! said the innkeeper .  

Heil! we said and leaned the skis against the wall and 
took off our packs .  

How was it up above ?  asked the innkeeper .  

Schon .  A little too much sun .  

Yes .  Theres too much sun this time of year .  

The cook sat on in his chair .  The innkeeper went in with 
us and unlocked his office and brought out our mail .  There 
was a bundle of letters and some papers .  

Lets get some beer ,  John said .  

Good .  Well drink it inside .  

The proprietor brought two bottles and we drank them 
while we read the letters .  

We better have some more beer ,  John said .  A girl brought 
it this time .  She smiled as she opened the bottles .  

Many letters ,  she said .  

Yes .  Many .  

Prosit ,  she said and went out ,  taking the empty bottles .  

Id forgotten what beer tasted like .  5 

I hadnt ,  John said .  Up in the hut I used to think about 
it a lot .  

Well ,  I said ,  weve got it now .  

You oughtnt to ever do anything too long .  



AN ALPINE IDYLL 319 

No .  We were up there too long .  

Too damn long /  John said .  Its no good doing a thing 
too long .  

The sun came through the open window and shone 
through the beer bottles on the table .  The bottles were half 
full .  There w&s a little froth on the beer in the bottles ,  not 
much because it was very cold .  It collared up when you 
poured it into the tall glasses .  I looked out of the open win -  
dow at the white road .  The trees beside the road were dusty .  
Beyond was a green field and a stream .  There were trees 
along the stream and a mill with a water wheel .  Through 
the open side of the mill I saw a long log and a saw in it 
rising and falling .  No one seemed to be tending it .  There 
were four crows walking in the green field .  One crow sat in 
a tree watching .  Outside on the porch the cook got off his 
chair and passed into the hall that led back into the kitchen .  
Inside ,  the sunlight shone through the empty glasses on the 
table .  John was leaning forward with his head on his arms .  

Through the window I saw two men come up the front 
steps .  They came into the drinking room .  One was the 
bearded peasant in the high boots .  The other was the sexton .  
They sat down at the table under the window .  The girl came 
in and stood by their table .  The peasant did not seem to see 
her .  He sat with his hands on the table .  He wore his old 
army clothes .  There were patches on the elbows .  

What will it be ?  3 asked the sexton .  The peasant did not 
pay any attention .  

What will you drink ?  5 

Schnapps ,  the peasant said .  

And a quarter litre of red wine /  the sexton told the girl .  

The girl brought the drinks and the peasant drank the 
schnapps .  He looked out of the window .  The sexton 
watched him .  John had his head forward on the table .  He 
was asleep .  

The innkeeper came in and went over to the table .  He 
spoke in dialect and the sexton answered him .  The peasant 



320 AN ALPINE IDYLL 

looked out of the window .  The innkeeper went out of the 
room .  The peasant stood up .  He took a folded ten - thousand 
kronen note out of a leather pocketbook and unfolded it .  
The girl came up .  

Alles ?  she asked .  

Alles ,  he said .  

Let me buy the wine ,  the sexton said .  

Alles ,  the peasant repeated to the girl .  She put her hand 
in the pocket of her apron ,  brought it out full of coins and 
counted out the change .  The peasant went out the door .  As 
soon as he was gone the innkeeper came into the room again 
and spoke to the sexton .  He sat down at the table .  They 
talked in dialect .  The sexton was amused .  The innkeeper 
was disgusted .  The sexton stood up from the table .  He was a 
little man with a moustache .  He leaned out of the window 
and looked up the road .  

There he goes in ,  he said .  

In the Lowen ?  

 Ja  

They talked again and then the innkeeper came over to 

our table .  The innkeeper was a tall man and old .  He looked 
at John asleep .  

Hes pretty tired .  

Yes ,  we were up early .  

Will you want to eat soon ?  

Any time /  I said .  What is there to eat ?  

Anything you want .  The girl will bring the eating - card .  

The girl brought the menu .  John woke up .  The menu 
was written in ink on a card and the card slipped into a 
wooden paddle .  

Theres the speise - karte ,  I said to John .  He looked at it .  
He was still sleepy .  

Wont you have a drink with us ?  I asked the innkeeper .  
He sat down .  Those peasants are beasts ,  said the inn -  
keeper .  

*We saw that one at a funeral coming into town .  5 



AN ALPINE IDYLL 321 

That was his wife .  5 

Oh .  5 

Hes a beast .  All these peasants are beasts .  5 

How do you mean ?  5 

You wouldnt believe it .  You wouldnt believe what just 
happened about that one .  3 

Tell me .  5 

You wouldnt believe it .  5 The innkeeper spoke to the 
sexton .  Franz ,  come over here .  The sexton came ,  bringing 
his little bottle of wine and his glass .  

The gentlemen are just come down from the Wiesbadener -  
hiitte ,  the innkeeper said .  We shook hands .  

What will you drink ?  I asked .  

Nothing ,  5 Franz shook his finger .  

Another quarter litre ?  

All right .  

Do you understand dialect ?  the innkeeper asked .  

No .  

Whats it all about ?  John asked .  

Hes going to tell us about the peasant we saw filling the 
grave ,  coming into town .  5 

I cant understand it ,  anyway ,  John said .  It goes too -  
fast for me .  5 

That peasant ,  the innkeeper said ,  to - day he brought his 
wife in to be buried .  She died last November .  5 

December ,  said the sexton .  

That makes nothing .  She died last December then ,  and 
he notified the commune .  5 

December eighteenth ,  5 said the sexton .  

Anyway ,  he couldnt bring her over to be buried until the 
snow was gone .  

He lives on the other side of the Paznaun ,  said the 
sexton .  But he belongs to this parish .  

He couldnt bring her out at all ?  5 I asked .  

No .  He can only come ,  from where he lives ,  on skis until 
the snow melts .  So to - day he brought her in to be buried 

x 



322 AN ALPINE IDYLL 

and the priest ,  when he looked at her face ,  didnt want to 
bury her .  You go on and tell it ,  he said to the sexton .  Speak 
German ,  not dialect .  

It was very funny with the priest ,  said the sexton .  In the 
report to the commune she died of heart trouble .  We knew 
she had heart trouble here .  She used to faint in church 
sometimes .  She did not come for a long time .  She wasnt 
strong to climb .  When the priest uncovered her face he asked 
Olz ,   " Did your wife suffer much ?  "   " No ,  "  said Olz .   " When 
I came in the house she was dead across the bed .  "  

The priest looked at her again .  He didnt like it .  

  " How did her face get that way ?  "  

  " I dont know ,  "  Olz said .  

  " Youd better find out ,  "  the priest said ,  and put the 
blanket back .  Olz didnt say anything .  The priest looked at 
him .  Olz looked back at the priest .   " You want to know ?  "  

  " I must know ,  "  the priest said .  

This is where its good ,  the innkeeper said .  Listen to 
this .  Go on ,  Franz .  

  " Well ,  "  said Olz ,   " when she died I made the report to 
the commune and I put her in the shed across the top of the 
big wood .  When I started to use the big wood she was stiff 
and I put her up against the wall .  Her mouth was open and 
when I came into the shed at night to cut up the big wood ,  I 
hung the lantern from it .  "  

  " Why did you do that ?  "  asked the priest .  

  " I dont know ,  "  said Olz .  

  " Did you do that many times ?  "  

  " Every time I went to work in the shed at night .  "  

  " It was very wrong ,  "  said the priest .   " Did you love your 
wife ?  "  

  " Ja ,  I loved her ,  "  Olz said .   " I loved her fine .  "  

Did you understand it all ?  asked the innkeeper .  You 
understand it all about his wife ?  

I heard it .  

How about eating ?  John asked ,  



AN ALPINE IDYLL 323 

You order ,  I said .  Do you think its true ?  I asked the 
innkeeper .  

Sure its true /  he said .  These peasants are beasts .  

Where did he go now ?  

Hes gone to drink at my colleagues ,  the Lowen .  

He didnt want to drink with me /  said the sexton .  

He didnt want to drink with me ,  after he knew about his 
wife /  said the innkeeper .  

Say /  said John .  How about eating ?  

All right /  I said .  



A PURSUIT RACE 

WILLIAM CAMPBELL had been in a pursuit race with a bur -  
lesque show ever since Pittsburgh .  In a pursuit race ,  in 
bicycle racing ,  riders start at equal intervals to ride after 
one another .  They ride very fast because the race is usually 
limited to a short distance and if they slow their riding 
another rider who maintains his pace will make up the space 
that separated them equally at the start .  As soon as a rider 
is caught and passed he is out of the race and must get down 
from his bicycle and leave the track .  If none of the riders 
are caught the winner of the race is the one who has gained 
the most distance .  In most pursuit races ,  if there are only 
two riders ,  one of the riders is caught inside of six miles .  The 
burlesque show caught William Campbell at Kansas City .  

William Campbell had hoped to hold a slight lead over the 
burlesque show until they reached the Pacific coast .  As long 
as he preceded the burlesque show as advance man he was 
being paid .  When the burlesque show caught up with him 
he was in bed .  He was in bed when the manager of the bur -  
lesque troupe came into his room and after the manager had 
gone out he decided that he might as well stay in bed .  It 
was very cold in Kansas City and he was in no hurry to go 
out .  He did not like Kansas City .  He reached under the bed 
for a bottle and drank .  It made his stomach feel better .  Mr .  
Turner ,  the manager of the burlesque show ,  had refused a 
drink .  

William Campbells interview with Mr .  Turner had been a 
little strange .  Mr .  Turner had knocked on the door .  Camp -  
bell had said: Come in! 5 When Mr .  Turner came into the 
room he saw clothing on a chair ,  an open suitcase ,  the bottle 
on a chair beside the bed ,  and someone lying in the bed 
completely covered by the bed - clothes .  

Mister Campbell ,  Mr .  Turner said .  

324 



APURSUITRACE 325 

You cant fire me ,  William Campbell said from under -  
neath the covers .  It was warm and white and close under 
the covers .  c You cant fire me because Ive got down off my 
bicycle .  5 

Youre drunk ,  Mr .  Turner said .  

Oh ,  yes ,  William Campbell said ,  speaking directly 
against the sheet and feeling the texture with his lips .  

Youre a fool ,  Mr .  Turner said .  He turned off the electric 
light .  The electric light had been burning all night .  It was 
now ten oclock in the morning .  Youre a drunken fool .  
When did you get into this town ?  

I got into this town last night ,  William Campbell said ,  
speaking against the sheet .  He found he liked to talk through 
a sheet .  Did you ever talk through a sheet ?  

Dont try to be funny .  You arent funny .  

Tm not being funny .  Im just talking through a sheet .  

Youre talking through a sheet all right .  

You can go now ,  Mr .  Turner ,  Campbell said .  I dont 
work for you any more .  

You know that anyway .  

I know a lot ,  William Campbell said .  He pulled down 
the sheet and looked at Mr .  Turner .  I know enough so I 
dont mind looking at you at all .  Do you want to hear what 
I know ?  

No .  

Good ,  said William Campbell .  Because really I dont 
know anything at all .  I was just talking .  He pulled the sheet 
up over his face again .  I love it under a sheet ,  he said .  Mr .  
Turner stood beside the bed .  He was a middle - aged man 
with a large stomach and a bald head and he had many 
things to do .  You ought to stop off here ,  Billy ,  and take 
a cure ,  he said .  Ill fix it up if you want to do it .  

I dont want to take a cure ,  William Campbell said .  C I 
dont want to take a cure at all .  I am perfectly happy .  All 
my life I have been perfectly happy .  

How long have you been this way ?  



326 APURSUITRACE 

What a question! William Campbell breathed in and out 
through the sheet .  

How long have you been stewed ,  Billy ?  

Havent I done my work ?  

Sure .  I just asked you how long youve been stewed ,  Billy .  

I dont know .  But Ive got my wolf back /  he touched 
the sheet with his tongue .  Ive had him for a week .  

The hell you have .  

Oh ,  yes .  My dear wolf .  Every time I take a drink he goes 
outside the room .  He cant stand alcohol .  The poor little 
fellow .  He moved his tongue round and round on the sheet .  
Hes a lovely wolf .  Hes just like he always was .  William 
Campbell shut his eyes and took a deep breath .  

You got to take a cure ,  Billy ,  Mr .  Turner said .  You 
wont mind the Keeley .  It isnt bad .  

The Keeley ,  William Campbell said .  It isnt far from 
London .  He shut his eyes and opened them ,  moving the eye -  
lashes against the sheet .  I just love sheets ,  he said .  He 
looked at Mr .  Turner .  

Listen ,  you think Im drunk .  

You are drunk .  

No ,  Im not .  

Youre drunk and youve had D . Ts .  

No .  William Campbell held the sheet around his head .  
Dear sheet ,  he said .  He breathed against it gently .  Pretty 
sheet .  You love me ,  dont you ,  sheet ?  Its all in the price of 
the room .  Just like in Japan .  No ,  he said .  Listen ,  Billy ,  dear 
Sliding Billy ,  I have a surprise for you .  Im not drunk .  Im 
hopped to the eyes .  

No ,  said Mr .  Turner .  

Take a look .  William Campbell pulled up the right 
sleeve of his pyjama jacket under the sheet ,  then shoved the 
right forearm out .  Look at that .  On the forearm ,  from 
just above the wrist to the elbow ,  were small blue circles 
around tiny dark blue punctures .  The circles almost 
touched one another .  Thats the new development /  



APURSUITRACE 327 

William Campbell said .  I drink a little now once in a while ,  
just to drive the wolf out of the room .  

They got a cure for that ,  Sliding Billy Turner said .  

No ,  William Campbell said .  They havent got a cure 
for anything . ] 

You cant just quit like that ,  Billy ,  Turner said .  He sat 
on the bed .  

Be careful of my sheet ,  William Campbell said .  

You cant just quit at your age and take to pumping your -  
self full of that stuff just because you got in a jam .  5 

Theres a law against it .  If thats what you mean .  

No ,  I mean you got to fight it out .  

Billy Campbell caressed the sheet with his lips and his 
tongue .  Dear sheet ,  he said .  I can kiss this sheet and see 
right through it at the same time .  5 

Cut it out about the sheet .  You cant just take to that 
stuff ,  Billy .  

William Campbell shut his eyes .  He was beginning to feel 
a slight nausea .  He knew that this nausea would increase 
steadily ,  without there ever being the relief of sickness ,  until 
something were done against it .  It was at this point that he 
suggested that Mr .  Turner have a drink .  Mr .  Turner 
declined .  William Campbell took a drink from the bottle .  
It was a temporary measure .  Mr .  Turner watched him .  Mr .  
Turner had been in this room much longer than he should 
have been ,  he had many things to do ;  although living in daily 
association with people who used drugs ,  he had a horror of 
drugs ,  and he was very fond of William Campbell ;  he did not 
wish to leave him .  He was very sorry for him and he felt a 
cure might help .  He knew there were good cures in Kansas 
City .  But he had to go .  He stood up .  

Listen ,  Billy ,  William Campbell said ,  I want to tell you 
something .  Youre called  " Sliding Billy "  .  Thats because 
you can slide .  Im called just Billy .  Thats because I never 
could slide at all .  I cant slide ,  Billy .  I cant slide .  It just 
catches .  Every time I try it ,  it catches .  He shut his 



328 APURSUITRACE 

yes .  I cant slide ,  Billy .  Its awful when you cant slide .  

Yes /  said Sliding Billy Turner .  

*Yes ,  what ?  William Campbell looked at him .  

You were saying .  

No ,  said William Campbell .  I wasnt saying .  It must 
have been a mistake .  

You were saying about sliding .  

No .  It couldnt have been about sliding .  But listen ,  Billy ,  
and Ill tell you a secret .  Stick to sheets ,  Billy .  Keep away 
from women and horses and ,  and  he stopped  eagles ,  

Billy .  If you love horses youll get horse - s  ,  and if you 

love eagles youll get eagle - s  .  He stopped and put his 

head under the sheet .  

I got to go ,  said Sliding Billy Turner .  

If you love women youll get a dose ,  William Campbell 
said .  If you love horses * 

Yes ,  you said that .  

Said what ?  

About horses and eagles .  

Oh ,  yes .  And if you love sheets .  He breathed on the sheet 
and stroked his nose against it .  T dont know about sheets ,  
he said .  I just started to love this sheet .  

I have to go ,  Mr .  Turner said .  I got a lot to do .  

Thats all right ,  William Campbell said .  Everybodys 
got to go .  

I better go .  

All right ,  you go .  

Are you all right ,  Billy ?  

I was never so happy in my life .  

And youre all right ?  

Im fine .  You go along .  Ill just lie here for a little while .  
Around noon Ill get up .  

But when Mr .  Turner came up to William Campbells 
room at noon William Campbell was sleeping and as Mr .  
Turner was a man who knew what things in life were very 
valuable he did not wake him .  



TO - DAY IS FRIDAY 

Three Roman soldiers are in a drinking - place at eleven oclock at 
night .  There are barrels around the wall .  Behind the wooden counter is 
a Hebrew wine - seller .  The three Roman soldiers are a little cockeyed .  

IST SOLDIER You tried the red ?  

2ND SOLDIER No ,  I aint tried it .  

IST SOLDIER You better try it .  

2ND SOLDIER All right ,  George ,  well have a round of the 
red .  

HEBREW WINE - SELLER Here you are ,  gentlemen .  Youll 
like that .   ( He sets down an earthenware pitcher that he has filled 
from one of the casks )  Thats a nice little wine .  

IST SOLDIER Have a drink of it yourself .   ( He turns to the 
third Roman soldier who is leaning on a barrel )  Whats the matter 
with you ?  

3RD SOLDIER I got a gut - ache .  

2ND SOLDIER Youve been drinking water .  

IST SOLDIER Try some of the red .  

3RD SOLDIER I cant drink the damn stuff .  It makes my 
gut sour .  

IST SOLDIER You been out here too long .  

3RD SOLDIER Hell ,  dont I know it ?  

IST SOLDIER Say ,  George ,  cant you give this gentleman 
something to fix up his stomach ?  

HEBREW WINE - SELLER I got it right here .  

 (  The third Roman soldier tastes the cup that the wine - seller has 
mixed for him )  

3RD SOLDIER Hey ,  what you put in that ,  camel chips ?  

WINE - SELLER You drink that right down ,  Lootenant .  
Thatll fix you up right .  

3RD SOLDIER Well ,  I couldnt feel any worse .  

IST SOLDIER Take a chance on it .  George fixed me up fine 
the other day .  

329 



330 TO - DAY IS FRIDAY 

WINE - SELLER You were in bad shape ,  Lootenant .  I know 
what fixes up a bad stomach .  

 (  The third Roman soldier drinks the cup down )  

3RD SOLDIER Jesus Christ .   ( He makes a face )  

2ND SOLDIER That false alarm! 

IST SOLDIER Oh ,  I dont know .  He was pretty good in 
there to - day .  

2ND SOLDIER Why didnt he come down off the cross ?  

IST SOLDIER He didnt want to come down off the cross .  
Thats not his play .  

2ND SOLDIER Show me a guy that doesnt want to come 
down off the cross .  

IST SOLDIER Aw ,  hell ,  you dont know anything about it .  
Ask George there .  Did he want to come down off the cross ,  
George ?  

WINE - SELLER Ill tell you ,  gentlemen ,  I wasnt out there .  
Its a thing I havent taken any interest in .  

2ND SOLDIER Listen ,  I seen a lot of them here and 
plenty of other places .  Any time you show me one that 
doesnt want to get down off the cross when the time comes 
when the time comes ,  I mean Ill climb right up with him .  

IST SOLDIER I thought he was pretty good in there to - day .  

3RD SOLDIER He was all right .  

2ND SOLDIER You guys dont know what Im talking 
about .  Im not saying whether he was good or not .  What 
I mean is ,  when the times comes .  When they first start 
nailing him ,  there isnt none of them wouldnt stop it if 
they could .  

IST SOLDIER Didnt you follow it ,  George ?  

WINE - SELLER No ,  I didnt take any interest in it ,  Loo -  
tenant .  

IST SOLDIER I was surprised how he acted .  

3RD SOLDIER The part I dont like is the nailing them on .  
You kpow ,  that must get to you pretty bad .  

2ND SOLDIER It isnt that thats so bad ,  as when they first 



TO - DAY IS FRIDAY 33* 

lift em up .   ( He makes a lifting gesture with his two palms 
together )  When the weight starts to pull on em .  Thats when 
it gets em .  

3RD SOLDIER It take some of them pretty bad .  

IST SOLDIER Aint I seen em ?  I seen plenty of them .  I tell 
you ,  he was pretty good in there to - day .  

 (  The second Roman soldier smiles at the Hebrew wine - seller )  

2ND SOLDIER Youre a regular Christer ,  big boy .  
IST SOLDIER Sure ,  go on and kid him .  But listen while I 
tell you something .  He was pretty good in there to - day .  
2ND SOLDIER What about some more wine ?  

 (  The wine - seller looks up expectantly .  The third Roman soldier 
is sitting with his head down .  He does not look well )  

3RD SOLDIER I dont want any more .  
2ND SOLDIER Just for two ,  George .  

 (  The wine - seller puts out a pitcher of wine ,  a size smaller than 
the last one .  He leans forward on the wooden counter )  

IST SOLDIER You see his girl ?  

2ND SOLDIER Wasnt I standing right by her ?  

IST SOLDIER Shes a nice - looker .  

2ND SOLDIER I knew her before he did .   ( He winks at the 
wine - seller )  

IST SOLDIER I used to see her around the town .  

2ND SOLDIER She used to have a lot of stuff .  He never 
brought her no good luck .  

IST SOLDIER Oh ,  he aint lucky .  But he looked pretty good 
to me in there to - day .  

2ND SOLDIER What become of his gang ?  

IST SOLDIER Oh ,  they faded out .  Just the women stuck by 
him .  

2ND SOLDIER They were a pretty yellow crowd .  When 
they seen him go up there they didnt want any of it .  

IST SOLDIER The women stuck all right .  



332 TO - DAY IS FRIDAY 

2ND SOLDIER Sure ,  they stuck all right .  

IST SOLDIER You see me slip the old spear into him ?  

2ND SOLDIER Youll get into trouble doing that some day .  

IST SOLDIER It was the least I could do for him .  Ill tell 
you he looked pretty good to me in there to - day .  

HEBREW WINE - SELLER Gentlemen ,  you know I got to close .  

IST SOLDIER Well have one more round .  

2ND SOLDIER Whats the use ?  This stuff dont get you 
anywhere .  Come on ,  lets go .  

IST SOLDIER Just another round .  

3RD SOLDIER  ( getting up from the barrel )  No ,  come on .  Lets 
go .  I feel like hell to - night .  

IST SOLDIER Just one more .  

2ND SOLDIER No ,  come on .  Were going to go .  Goodnight ,  
George .  Put it on the bill .  

WINE - SELLER Good night ,  gentlemen .   ( He looks a little 
worried )  You couldnt let me have a little something on 
account ,  Lootenant ?  

2ND SOLDIER What the hell ,  George ! Wednesdays pay - day .  

WINE - SELLER Its all right ,  Lootenant .  Good night ,  
gentlemen .  

 ( The three Roman soldiers go out the door into the street .  
Outside in the street )  

2ND SOLDIER George is a kike just like all the rest of them .  
IST SOLDIER Oh ,  George is a nice fella .  
2ND SOLDIER Everybodys a nice fella to you to - night .  
3RD SOLDIER Come on ,  lets go up to the barracks .  I feel 
like hell to - night .  

2ND SOLDIER You been out here too long .  

3RD SOLDIER No ,  it aint just that .  I feel like hell .  

2ND SOLDIER You been out here too long .  Thats all .  

CURTAIN 



BANAL STORY 

So he ate an orange ,  slowly spitting out the seeds .  Outside ,  
the snow was turning to rain .  Inside ,  the electric stove 
seemed to give no heat and rising from his writing - table ,  he 
sat down upon the stove .  How good it felt! Here ,  at last ,  
was life .  

He reached for another orange .  Far away in Paris ,  
Mascart had knocked Danny Frush cuckoo in the second 
round .  Far off in Mesopotamia ,  twenty - one feet of snow had 
fallen .  Across the world in distant Australia ,  the English 
cricketers were sharpening up their wickets .  There was 
Romance .  

Patrons of the arts and letters have discovered The Forum ,  
he read .  It is the guide ,  philosopher ,  and friend of the think -  
ing minority .  Prize short stories will their authors write 
our best sellers of to - morrow ?  

You will enjoy these warm ,  homespun ,  American tales ,  bits 
of real life on the open ranch ,  in crowded tenement or com -  
fortable home ,  and all with a healthy undercurrent of 
humour .  

I must read them ,  he thought .  

He read on .  Our childrens children what of them ?  
Who of them ?  New means must be discovered to find room 
for us under the sun .  Shall this be done by war or can it be 
done by peaceful methods ?  

Or will we all have to move to Canada ?  

Our deepest convictions will Science upset them ?  Our 
civilization is it inferior to older orders of things ?  

And meanwhile ,  in the far - off dripping jungles of Yucatan ,  
sounded the chopping of the axes of the gum - choppers .  

Do we want big men or do we want them cultured ?  
Take Joyce .  Take President Coolidge .  What star must our 
college students aim at ?  There is Jack Britton .  There is 
Doctor Henry Van .  Dyke .  Can we reconcile the two ?  Take 
the case of Young Stribling .  

333 



334 BANAL STORY 

And what of our daughters who must make their own 
Soundings ?  Nancy Hawthorne is obliged to make her own 
Soundings in the sea of life .  Bravely and sensibly she faces 
the problems which come to every girl of eighteen .  

It was a splendid booklet .  

Are you a girl of eighteen ?  Take the case of Joan of Arc .  
Take the case of Bernard Shaw .  Take the case of Betsy Ross .  

Think of these things in 1925 Was there a risque page in 
Puritan history ?  .  Were there two sides to Pocahontas ?  Did 
she have a fourth dimension ?  

Are modern paintings and poetry Art ?  Yes and No .  
Take Picasso .  

Have tramps codes of conduct ?  Send your mind adventur -  
ing .  

There is Romance everywhere .  Forum writers talk to the 
point ,  are possessed of humour and wit .  But they do not try 
to be smart and are never long - winded .  

Live the full life of the mind ,  exhilarated by new ideas ,  
intoxicated by the Romance of the unusual .  He laid down 
the booklet .  

And meanwhile ,  stretched flat on a bed in a darkened 
room in his house in Triana ,  Manuel Garcia Maera lay with 
a tube in each lung ,  drowning with the pneumonia .  All the 
papers in Andalucia devoted special supplements to his 
death ,  which had been expected for some days .  Men and 
boys bought full - length coloured pictures of him to remember 
him by ,  and lost the picture they had of him in their memo -  
ries by looking at the lithographs .  Bull - fighters were very 
relieved he was dead ,  because he did always in the bull - ring 
the things they could only do sometimes .  They all marched 
in the rain behind his coffin and there were one hundred and 
forty - seven bull - fighters followed him out to the cemetery ,  
where they buried him in the tomb next to Joselito .  After 
the funeral every one sat in the cafes out of the rain ,  and 
many coloured pictures of Maera were sold to meri who 
rolled them up and put them away in their pockets .  



A CLEAN ,  WELL - LIGHTED PLACE 

IT was late and everyone had left the cafe except an old man 
who sat in the shadow the leaves of the tree made against the 
electric light .  In the daytime the street was dusty ,  but at 
night the dew settled the dust and the old man liked to sit 
late because he was deaf and now at night it was quiet and he 
felt the difference .  The two waiters inside the cafe knew that 
the old man was a little drunk ,  and while he was a good 
client they knew that if he became too drunk he would leave 
without paying ,  so they kept watch on him .  

Last week he tried to commit suicide ,  one waiter said .  

Why ?  

He was in despair .  

What about ?  

Nothing .  

How do you know it was nothing ?  

He has plenty of money .  

They sat together at a table that was close against the wall 
near the door of the cafe and looked at the terrace where the 
tables were all empty except where the old man sat in the 
shadow of the leaves of the tree that moved slightly in the 
wind .  A girl and a soldier went by in the street .  The street 
light shone on the brass number on his collar .  The girl wore 
no head covering and hurried beside him .  

The guard will pick him up /  one waiter said .  

What does it matter if he gets what hes after ?  

He had better get off the street now .  The guard will get 
him .  They went by five minutes ago .  

The old man sitting in the shadow rapped on his saucer 
with his glass .  The younger waiter went over to him .  

What do you want ?  

The old man looked at him .  Another brandy ,  he said .  

Youll be drunk /  the waiter said .  The old man looked at 
him .  The waiter went away .  



352 A CLEAN ,  WELL - LIGHTED PLACE 

Hell stay all night /  he said to his colleague .  Im sleepy 
now .  I never get into bed before three oclock .  He should 
have killed himself last week .  

The waiter took the brandy bottle and another saucer from 
the counter inside the cafe and marched out to the old mans 
table .  He put down the saucer and poured the glass full of 
brandy .  

You should have killed yourself last week ,  he said to the 
deaf man .  The old man motioned with his finger .  { A little 
more /  he said .  The waiter poured on into the glass so that 
the brandy slopped over and ran down the stem into the top 
saucer of the pile .  Thank you /  the old man said .  The 
waiter took the bottle back inside the cafe .  He sat down at 
the table with his colleague again .  

Hes drunk now /  he said .  

Hes drunk every night .  

What did he want to kill himself for ?  

How should I know ?  

How did he do it ?  

He hung himself with a rope .  

Who cut him down ?  

His niece .  

Why did they do it ?  

Fear for his soul .  

How much money has he got ?  

Hes got plenty .  

He must be eighty years old .  

Anyway I should say he was eighty .  

I wish he would go home .  I never get to bed before three 
oclock .  What kind of hour is that to go to bed ?  

He stays up because he likes it .  

Hes lonely .  Im not lonely .  I have a wife waiting in bed 
for me .  

He had a wife once too .  

A wife would be no good to him now .  

You cant tell .  He might be better with a wife .  



A CLEAN ,  WELL - LIGHTED PLACE 353 

His niece looks after him .  

I know .  You said she cut him down .  5 

I wouldnt want to be that old .  An old man is a nasty thing .  

Not always .  This old man is clean .  He drinks without 
spilling .  Even now ,  drunk .  Look at him .  

I dont want to look at him .  I wish he would go home .  
He has no regard for those who must work .  

The old man looked from his glass across the square ,  then 
over at the waiters .  

Another brandy ,  he said ,  pointing to his glass .  The 
waiter who was in a hurry came over .  

Finished ,  he said ,  speaking with that omission of syntax 
stupid people employ when talking to drunken people or 
foreigners .  No more to - night .  Close now .  

Another ,  said the old man .  

No .  Finished /  The waiter wiped the edge of the table 
with a towel and shook his head .  

The old man stood up ,  slowly counted the saucers ,  took a 
leather coin purse from his pocket and paid for the drinks ,  
leaving half a peseta tip .  

The waiter watched him go down the street ,  a very old 
man walking unsteadily but with dignity .  

Why didnt you let him stay and drink ?  the unhurried 
waiter asked .  They were putting up the shutters .  It is not 
half - past two .  

I want to go home to bed .  

What is an hour ?  

More to me than to him .  

An hour is the same .  

You talk like an old man yourself .  He can buy a bottle 
and drink at home .  5 

Its not the same .  

No ,  it is not ,  agreed the waiter with a wife .  He did not 
wish to be unjust .  He was only in a hurry .  

And you ?  You have no fear of going home before your 
usual hour ?  



354 A CLEAN ,  WELL -  LIGHTED PLACE 

Are you trying to insult me ?  

No ,  hombre ,  only to make a joke .  

No ,  the waiter who was in a hurry said ,  rising from 
pulling down the metal shutters .  I have confidence .  I am 
all confidence .  

You have youth ,  confidence ,  and a job ,  the older waiter 
said .  You have everything .  

And what do you lack ?  

Everything but work .  

You have everything I have .  

No .  I have never had confidence and I am not young .  

Gome on .  Stop talking nonsense and lock up .  

I am of those who like to stay late at the cafe ,  the older 
waiter said .  With all those who do not want to go to bed .  
With all those who need a light for the night .  

I want to go home and into bed .  

We are of two different kinds ,  the older waiter said .  He 
was now dressed to go home .  It is not only a question of 
youth and confidence ,  although those things are very beau -  
tiful .  Each night I am reluctant to close up because there 
may be someone who needs the cafe .  

Hombre ,  there are bodegas open all night long .  

You do not understand .  This is a clean and pleasant cafe .  
It is well lighted .  The light is very good and also ,  now ,  there 
are shadows of the leaves .  

Good night ,  said the younger waiter .  

Good night ,  the other said .  Turning off the electric light 
he continued the conversation with himself .  It is the light of 
course but it is necessary that the place be clean and pleasant .  
You do not want music .  Certainly you do not want music .  
Nor can you stand before a bar with dignity although that is 
all that is provided for these hours .  What did he fear ?  It was 
not fear or dread .  It was a nothing that he knew too well .  It 
was all a nothing and a man was nothing too .  It was only that 
and light was all it needed and a certain cleanness and order .  
Some lived in it and never felt it but he knew it all was nada 



A CLEAN ,  WELL - LIGHTED PLACE 355 

y pues nada y nada y pues nada .  Our nada who art in 
nada ,  nada be thy name thy kingdom nada thy will be nada 
in nada as it is in nada .  Give us this nada our daily nada and 
nada us our nada as we nada our nadas and nada us not into 
nada but deliver us from nada ;  pues nada .  Hail nothing full 
of nothing ,  nothing is with thee .  He smiled and stood before 
a bar with a shining steam pressure coffee machine .  

Whats yours ?  asked the barman .  

Nada .  

Otro loco mas ,  said the barman and turned away .  

A little cup ,  said the waiter .  

The barman poured it for him .  

The light is very bright and pleasant but the bar is un -  
polished ,  the waiter said .  

The barman looked at him but did not answer .  It was too 
late at night for conversation .  

You want another copita ?  the barman asked .  

No ,  thank you ,  said the waiter and went out .  He disliked 
bars and bodegas .  A clean ,  well - lighted cafe was a very 
different thing .  Now ,  without thinking further ,  he would go 
home to his room .  He would lie in the bed and finally ,  with 
daylight ,  he would go to sleep .  After all ,  he said to himself ,  
it is probably only insomnia .  Many must have it .  



THE LIGHT OF THE WORLD 

WHEN he saw us come in the door the bartender looked up 
and then reached over and put the glass covers on the two 
free - lunch bowls .  

Give me a beer /  I said .  He drew it ,  cut the top off with 
the spatula and then held the glass in his hand .  I put the 
nickel on the wood and he slid the beer toward me .  

Whats yours ?  he said to Tom .  

Beer .  

He drew that beer and cut it off and when he saw the 
money he pushed the beer across to Tom .  

Whats the matter ?  Tom asked .  

The bartender didnt answer him .  He just looked over our 
heads and said ,  Whats yours ?  to a man whod come in .  

Rye /  the man said .  The bartender put out the bottle 
and glass and a glass of water .  

Tom reached over and took the glass off the free - lunch 
bowl .  It was a bowl of pickled pigs feet and there was a 
wooden thing that worked like a scissors ,  with two wooden 
forks at the end to pick them up with .  

No /  said the bartender and put the glass cover back on 
the bowl .  Tom held the wooden scissors fork in his hand .  
Put it back /  said the bartender .  

You know where /  said Tom .  

The bartender reached a hand forward under the bar ,  
watching us both .  I put fifty cents on the wood and he 
straightened up .  

What was yours ?  he said .  

Beer /  I said ,  and before he drew the beer he uncovered 
both the bowls .  

Your goddam pigs feet stink /  Tom said ,  and spit what he 
had in his mouth on the floor .  The bartender didnt say any -  
thing .  The man who had drunk the rye paid and went out 
without looking back .  

356 



THE LIGHT OF THE WORLD 357 

You stink yourself ,  5 the bartender said .  All you punks 
stink .  

He says were punks ,  Tommy said to me .  

Listen ,  I said .  Lets get out .  

You punks clear the hell out of here ,  the bartender said .  

I said we were going out ,  I said .  It wasnt your idea .  

Well be back ,  Tommy said .  

No you wont ,  the bartender told him .  

Tell him how wrong he is ,  Tom turned to me .  

Come on ,  I said .  

Outside it was good and dark .  

What the hell kind of place is this ?  Tommy said .  

I dont know ,  I said .  Lets go down to the station .  

Wed come in that town at one end and we were going 
out the other .  It smelled of hides and tan bark and the big 
piles of sawdust .  It was getting dark as we came in ,  and now 
that it was dark it was cold and the puddles of water in the 
road were freezing at the edges .  

Down at the station there were five whores waiting for the 
train to come in ,  and six white men and four Indians .  It was 
crowded and hot from the stove and full of stale smoke .  As we 
came in nobody was talking and the ticket window was down .  

Shut the door ,  cant you! somebody said .  

I looked to see who said it .  It was one of the white men .  
He wore stagged trousers and lumbermens rubbers and a 
mackinaw shirt like the others ,  but he had no cap and his 
face was white and his hands were white and thin .  

Arent you going to shut it ?  

Sure ,  I said ,  and shut it .  

Thank you ,  he said .  One of the other men snickered .  

Ever interfere with a cook ?  he said to me .  

No .  

You can interfere with this one ,  he looked at the cook .  
He likes it .  5  ,  

The cook looked away from him holding his lips tight 
together .  



358 THE LIGHT OF THE WORLD 

He puts lemon juice on his hands /  the man said .  He 
wouldnt get them in dishwater for anything .  Look how 
white they are .  

One of the whores laughed out loud .  She was the biggest 
whore I ever saw in my life and the biggest woman .  And 
she had on one of those silk dresses that change colours .  There 
were two other whores that were nearly as big but the big 
one must have weighed three hundred and fifty pounds .  You 
couldnt believe she was real when you looked at her .  All 
three had those changeable silk dresses .  They sat side by side 
on the bench .  They were huge .  The other two were just 
ordinary looking whores ,  peroxide blondes .  

Look at his hands ,  the man said and nodded his head at 
the cook .  The whore laughed again and shook all over .  

The cook turned and said to her quickly ,  You big disgust -  
ing mountain of flesh .  

She just keep on laughing and shaking .  

Oh ,  my Christ ,  she said .  She had a nice voice .  Oh ,  my 
sweet Christ .  

The two other whores ,  the big ones ,  acted very quiet and 
placid as though they didnt have much sense ,  but they were 
big ,  nearly as big as the biggest one .  Theyd have both gone 
well over two hundred and fifty pounds .  The other two were 
dignified .  

Of the men ,  besides the cook and the one who talked ,  there 
were two other lumberjacks ,  one that listened ,  interested but 
bashful ,  and the other that seemed getting ready to say some -  
thing ,  and two Swedes .  Two Indians were sitting down at the 
end of the bench and one standing up against the wall .  

The man who was getting ready to say something spoke to 
me very low ,  Must be like getting on top of a hay mow .  

I laughed and said it to Tommy .  

I swear to Christ Ive never been anywhere like this ,  he 
said .  Look at the three of them .  Then the cook spoke up .  

How old are you boys ?  

Im ninety - six and hes sixty - nine ,  Tommy said .  



THE LIGHT OF THE WORLD 359 

Ho! Ho! Ho! the big whore shook with laughing .  She 
had a really pretty voice .  The other whores didnt smile .  

Oh ,  cant you be decent ?  the cook said .  I asked just to 
be friendly .  3 

Were seventeen and nineteen ,  I said .  

Whats th matter with you ?  Tommy turned to me .  

Thats all right .  

You can call me Alice ,  the big whore said and then she 
began to shake again .  

Is that your name ?  Tommy asked .  

Sure /  she said .  Alice .  Isnt it ?  she turned to the man 
who sat by the cook .  

Alice .  Thats right .  

Thats the sort of name youd have ,  the cook said .  

Its jmy real name ,  Alice said .  

Whats the other girls names ?  Tom asked .  

Hazel and Ethel ,  Alice said .  Hazel and Ethel smiled .  
They werent very bright .  

Whats your name ?  5 I said to one of the blondes .  

Frances ,  she said .  

Frances what ?  

Frances Wilson .  Whats it to you ?  

Whats yours ?  I asked the other one .  

Oh ,  dont be fresh ,  she said .  

He just wants us all to be friends ,  the man who talked 
said .  Dont you want to be friends ?  

No ,  the peroxide one said .  Not with you .  

Shes just a spitfire ,  the man said .  A regular little 
spitfire .  

The one blonde looked at the other and shook her head .  

Goddamned mossbacks ,  she said .  

Alice commenced to laugh again and to shake all over .  

Theres nothing funny ,  the cook said .  You all laugh but 
theres nothing funny .  You two young lads ;  where are you 
bound for ?  

Where are you going yourself ?  Tom asked him .  



360 THE LIGHT OF THE WORLD 

I want to go to Cadillac /  the cook said .  Have you ever 
been there ?  My sister lives there .  

Hes a sister himself /  the man in the stagged trousers said .  

Cant you stop that sort of thing ?  the cook asked .  Cant 
we speak decently ?  

Cadillac is where Steve Ketchel came from and where Ad 
Wolgast is from /  the shy man said .  

Steve Ketchel /  one of the blondes said in a high voice as 
though the name had pulled a trigger on her .  His own 
father shot and killed him .  Yes ,  by Christ ,  his own father .  
There arent any more men like Steve Ketchel .  

Wasnt his name Stanley Ketchel ?  asked the cook .  

Oh ,  shut up /  said the blonde .  What do you know about 
Steve ?  Stanley .  He was no Stanley .  Steve Ketchel was the 
finest and most beautiful man that ever lived .  I never saw a 
man as clean and as white and as beautiful as Steve Ketchel .  
There never was a man like that .  He moved just like a tiger 
and he was the finest ,  free - est ,  spender that ever lived .  

Did you know him ?  one of the men asked .  

Did I know him ?  Did I know him ?  Did I love him ?  You 
ask me that ?  I knew him like you know nobody in the world 
and I loved him like you love God .  He was the greatest ,  
finest ,  whitest ,  most beautiful man that ever lived ,  Steve 
Ketchel ,  and his own father shot him down like a dog .  

Were you out on the coast with him ?  

No .  I knew him before that .  He was the only man I ever 
loved .  

Everyone was very respectful to the peroxide blonde ,  who 
said all this in a high stagey way ,  but Alice was beginning 
to shake again .  I felt it sitting by her .  

You should have married him /  the cook said .  

I wouldnt hurt his career /  the peroxide blonde said .  I 
wouldnt be a drawback to him .  A wife wasnt what he 
needed .  Oh ,  my God ,  what a man he was .  

That was a fine way to look at it /  the cook said .  Didnt 
Jack Johnson knock him out though ?  



THE LIGHT OF THE WORLD 361 

c lt was a trick /  Peroxide said .  That big dinge took him 
by surprise .  Hed just knocked Jack Johnson down ,  the big 
black bastard .  That nigger beat him by a fluke .  

The ticket window went up and the three Indians went 
over to it .  

Steve knocked him down /  Peroxide said .  He turned to 
smile at me .  

I thought you said you werent on the coast /  someone said .  

6 1 went out just for that fight .  Steve turned to smile at me 
and that black son of a bitch from hell jumped up and hit 
him by surprise .  Steve could lick a hundred like that black 
bastard .  

He was a great fighter /  the lumberjack said .  

I hope to God he was /  Peroxide said .  I hope to God they 
dont have fighters like that now .  He was like a god ,  he was .  
So white and clean and beautiful and smooth and fast and 
like a tiger or like lightning .  

I saw him in the moving pictures of the fight /  Tom said .  
We were all very moved .  Alice was shaking all over and I 
looked and saw she was crying .  The Indians had gone 
outside on the platform .  

He was more than any husband could ever be /  Peroxide 
said .  We were married in the eyes of God and I belong to 
him right now and always will and all of me is his .  I dont 
care about my body .  They can take my body .  My soul 
belongs to Steve Ketchel .  By God ,  he was a man .  

Everybody felt terribly .  It was sad and embarrassing .  
Then Alice ,  who was still shaking ,  spoke ,  Youre a dirty liar /  
she said in that low voice .  You never layed Steve Ketchel 
in your life and you know it .  3 

How can you say that ?  Peroxide said proudly .  

I say it because its true /  Alice said .  Tm the only one 
here that ever knew Steve Ketchel and I come from Mance -  
lona and I knew him there and its true and you know its 
true and God can strike me dead if it isnt true .  

He can strike me too /  Peroxide said .  



362 THE LIGHT OF THE WORLD 

This is true ,  true ,  true ,  and you know it .  Not just made 
up and I know exactly what he said to me .  

What did he say ?  Peroxide asked ,  complacently .  

Alice was crying so she could hardly speak from shaking 
so .  He said ,   " Youre a lovely piece ,  Alice .  "  Thats exactly 
what he said .  

Its a lie ,  Peroxide said .  

Its true ,  Alice said .  Thats truly what he said .  

Its a lie ,  Peroxide said proudly .  

No ,  its true ,  true ,  true ,  to Jesus and Mary true .  

Steve couldnt have said that .  It wasnt the way he 
talked ,  Peroxide said happily .  

Its true ,  said Alice in her nice voice .  And it doesnt 
make any difference to me whether you believe it or not /  
She wasnt crying any more and she was calm .  

It would be impossible for Steve to have said that ,  
Peroxide declared .  

He said it ,  Alice said and smiled .  And I remember when 
he said it and I was a lovely piece then exactly as he said ,  and 
right now Im a better piece than you ,  you dried up old 
hot -  water bottle .  

You cant insult me ,  said Peroxide .  You big mountain 
of pus .  I have my memories .  

No ,  Alice said in that sweet lovely voice ,  you havent got 
any real memories except having your tubes out and when 
you started C .  and M .  Everything else you just read in the 
papers .  Im clean and you know it ,  and men like me ,  even 
though Im big ,  and you know it ,  and I never lie and you 
know it .  

Leave me with my memories ,  Peroxide said .  With my 
true ,  wonderful memories .  

Alice looked at her and then at us and her face lost that 
hurt look and she smiled and she had about the prettiest face 
I ever saw .  She had a pretty face and a nice smooth skin and 
a lovely voice and she was nice all right and really friendly .  
But my God she was big .  She was as big as three women .  



THE LIGHT OF THE WORLD 363 

Tom saw me looking at her and he said ,  Come on .  Lets go /  
Good - bye ,  said Alice .  She certainly had a nice voice .  
Good - bye /  I said .  

Which way are you boys going ?  asked the cook .  
The other way from you ,  Tom told him .  



GOD REST YOU MERRY ,  GENTLEMEN 

IN those days the distances were all very different ,  the dirt 
blew off the hills that now have been cut down ,  and Kansas 
City was very like Constantinople .  You may not believe this ,  
No one believes this ;  but it is true .  On this afternoon it was 
snowing and inside an automobile dealers show window ,  
lighted against the early dark ,  there was a racing motor car 
finished entirely in silver with Dans Argent lettered on the 
hood .  This I believed to mean the silver dance or the silver 
dancer ,  and ,  slightly puzzled which it meant but happy in 
the sight of the car and pleased by my knowledge of a foreign 
language ,  I went along the street in the snow .  I was walking 
from the Woolf Brothers saloon where ,  on Christmas and 
Thanksgiving Day ,  a free turkey dinner was served ,  toward 
the city hospital which was on a high hill that overlooked the 
smoke ,  the buildings and the streets of the town .  In the 
reception room of the hospital were the two ambulance 
surgeons ,  Doc Fischer and Doctor Wilcox ,  sitting ,  the one 
before a desk ,  the other in a chair against the wall .  

Doc Fischer was thin ,  sand - blond ,  with a thin mouth ,  
amused eyes and gamblers hands .  Doctor Wilcox was short ,  
dark and carried an indexed book ,  The Young Doctors Friend 
and Guide ,  which ,  being consulted on any given subject ,  told 
symptoms and treatment .  It was also cross - indexed so that 
being consulted on symptoms it gave diagnoses .  Doc Fischer 
had suggested that any future editions should be further 
cross - indexed so that if consulted as to the treatments being 
given ,  it would reveal ailments and symptoms .  As an aid to 
memory ,  he said .  

Doctor Wilcox was sensitive about this book but could not 
get along without it .  It was bound in limp leather and fitted 
his coat pocket and he had bought it at the advice of one of 
his professors who had said ,  Wilcox ,  you have no business 

364 



GOD REST YOU MERRY ,  GENTLEMEN 365 

being a physician and I have done everything in my power 
to prevent you from being certified as one .  Since you are 
now a member of this learned profession I advise you ,  in the 
name of humanity ,  to obtain a copy of The Young Doctors 
Friend and Guide ,  and use it ,  Doctor Wilcox .  Learn to use it .  

Doctor Wilcox had said nothing but he had bought the 
leather - bound guide that same day .  

Well ,  Horace /  Doc Fischer said as I came in the receiving 
room which smelt of cigarettes ,  iodoform ,  carbolic and an 
over - heated radiator .  

Gentlemen /  I said .  

What news along the rialto ?  5 Doc Fischer asked .  He 
affected a certain extravagance of speech which seemed to me 
to be of the utmost elegance .  

The free turkey at WoolPs ,  I answered .  

You partook ?  5 

Copiously .  5 

Many of the confreres present ?  5 

All of them .  The whole staff .  5 

Much Yuletide cheer ?  5 

Not much .  5 

Doctor Wilcox here has partaken slightly ,  5 Doc Fischer 
said .  Doctor Wilcox looked up at him ,  then at me .  

Want a drink ?  5 he asked .  

No ,  thanks ,  5 I said .  

Thats all right ,  5 Doctor Wilcox said .  

Horace ,  5 Doc Fischer said ,  you dont mind me calling you 
Horace ,  do you ?  5 

No .  5 

Good old Horace .  Weve had an extremely interesting 
case .  5 

Til say /  said Doctor Wilcox .  

You know the lad who was in here yesterday ?  5 

Which one ?  5 

The lad who sought eunuch - hood .  

Yes .  I had been there when he came in .  He was a boy 



366 GOD REST YOU MERRY ,  GENTLEMEN 

about sixteen .  He came in with no hat on and was very 
excited and frightened but determined .  He was curly haired 
and well built and his lips were prominent .  

Whats the matter with you ,  son ?  Doctor Wilcox asked him .  

I want to be castrated ,  the boy said .  

Why ?  Doc Fischer asked .  

Ive prayed and Ive done everything and nothing helps .  5 

Helps what ?  

That awful lust .  5 

What awful lust ?  

The way I get .  The way I cant stop getting .  I pray all 
night about it .  

Just what happens ?  Doc Fischer asked .  

The boy told him .  Listen ,  boy ,  Doc Fischer said .  Theres 
nothing wrong with you .  Thats the way youre supposed to 
be .  Theres nothing wrong with that .  

It is wrong ,  said the boy .  Its a sin against purity .  Its 
a sin against our Lord and Saviour .  

No ,  said Doc Fischer .  Its a natural thing .  Its the way 
you are supposed to be and later on you will think you are 
very fortunate .  

Oh ,  you dont understand ,  the boy said .  

Listen ,  Doc Fischer said and he told the boy certain 
things .  

c No .  I wont listen .  You cant make me listen .  

Please listen ,  Doc Fischer said .  

Youre just a goddamned fool ,  Doctor Wilcox said to the 
boy .  

Then you wont do it ?  the boy asked .  

Do what ?  5 

Castrate me .  

Listen ,  Doc Fischer said .  No one will castrate you .  
There is nothing wrong with your body .  You have a fine 
body and you must not think about that .  If you are religious 
remember that what you complain of is no sinful state but 
the means of consummating a sacrament .  



GOD REST YOU MERRY ,  GENTLEMEN 367 

I cant stop it happening ,  the boy said .  e l pray all night 
and I pray in the daytime .  It is a sin ,  a constant sin against 
purity .  

Oh ,  go and  Doctor Wilcox said .  

When you talk like that I dont hear you ,  5 the boy said 
with dignity to Doctor Wilcox .  Wont you please do it ?  he 
asked Doc Fischer .  

No ,  said Doc Fischer .  Tve told you ,  boy .  

Get him out of here ,  Doctor Wilcox said .  

Til get out ,  the boy said .  Dont touch me .  Ill get out .  

That was about five oclock on the day before .  

So what happened ?  I asked .  

So at one oclock this morning ,  Doc Fischer said ,  we 
receive the youth self - mutilated with a razor .  

Castrated ?  

No ,  said Doc Fischer .  He didnt know what castrate 
meant .  

He may die ,  Doctor Wilcox said .  

Why ?  

Loss of blood .  

The good physician here ,  Doctor Wilcox ,  my colleague ,  
was on call and he was unable to find this emergency listed 
in his book .  

The hell with you talking that way ,  Doctor Wilcox said .  

I only mean it in the friendliest way ,  Doctor ,  Doc Fischer 
said ,  looking at his hands ,  at his hands that had ,  with his 
willingness to oblige and his lack of respect for Federal 
statutes ,  made him his trouble .  Horace here will bear me 
out that I only speak of it in the very friendliest way .  It was 
an amputation the young man performed ,  Horace .  

Well ,  I wish you wouldnt ride me about it ,  Doctor 
Wilcox said .  There isnt any need to ride me .  

Ride you ,  Doctor ,  on the day ,  the very anniversary ,  of our 
Saviours birth ?  

Our Saviour ?  Aint you a Jew ?  Doctor WiJcox said .  

So I am .  So I am .  It always is slipping my mind .  Ive 



368 GOD REST YOU MERRY ,  GENTLEMEN 

never given it its proper importance .  So good of you to 
remind me .  Tour Saviour .  Thats right .  Tour Saviour ,  un -  
doubtedly your Saviour and the ride for Palm Sunday .  5 

Youre too damned smart ,  Doctor Wilcox said .  

An excellent diagnosis ,  Doctor .  I was always too damned 
smart .  Too damned smart on the coast certainly .  Avoid it ,  
Horace .  You havent much tendency but sometimes I see a 
gleam .  But what a diagnosis and without the book .  

The hell with you ,  Doctor Wilcox said .  

All in good time ,  Doctor ,  Doc Fischer said .  All in good 
time .  If there is such a place I shall certainly visit it .  I have 
even had a very small look into it .  No more than a peek ,  
really .  I looked away almost at once .  And do you know what 
the young man said ,  Horace ,  when the good Doctor here 
brought him in ?  He said ,  cc Oh ,  I asked you to do it .  I asked 
you so many times to do it .  "   

On Christmas Day ,  too ,  Doctor Wilcox said .  

The significance of the particular day is not important ,  
Doc Fischer said .  

Maybe not to you ,  said Doctor Wilcox .  

You hear him ,  ,  Horace ?  Doc Fischer said .  You hear 
him ?  Having discovered my vulnerable point ,  my achilles 
tendon so to speak ,  the doctor pursues his advantage .  

Youre too damned smart /  Doctor Wilcox said .  



THE SEA CHANGE 

ALL right ,  5 said the man .  What about it ?  

No ,  said tne girl .  I cant .  

You mean you wont .  

I cant ,  said the girl .  Thats all that I mean .  

You mean that you wont .  

All right ,  said the girl .  You have it your own way /  

I dont have it my own way .  I wish to God I did .  

You did for a long time ,  the girl said .  

It was early ,  and there was no one in the cafe except the 
barman and these two who sat together at a table in the 
corner .  It was the end of the summer and they were both 
tanned ,  so that they looked out of place in Paris .  The girl 
wore a tweed suit ,  her skin was a smooth golden brown ,  her 
blonde hair was cut short and grew beautifully away from 
her forehead .  The man looked at her .  

Til kill her ,  he said .  

Please dont ,  the girl said .  She had very fine hands and 
the man looked at them .  They were slim and brown and 
very beautiful .  

I will .  I swear to God I will .  

It wont make you happy .  

Couldnt you have gotten into something else ?  Couldnt 
you have gotten into some other jam ?  

It seems not ,  the girl said .  What are you going to do 
about it ?  

I told you .  

No ;  I mean really .  

I dont know ,  he said .  She looked at him and put out her 
hand .  Toor old Phil /  she said .  He looked at her hands ,  but 
he did not touch her hand with his .  

No ,  thanks ,  he said .  

It doesnt do any good to say Im sorry ?  

AA 369 



370 THESEACHANGE 

No .  

Nor to tell you how it is ?  

Id rather not hear .  

*I love you very much .  

 " Yes ,  this proves it .  

Im sorry ,  she said ,  if you dont understand .  

I understand .   . Thats the trouble .  I understand .  

You do ,  she said .  That makes it worse ,  of course .  

Sure ,  he said ,  looking at her .  Til understand all the 
time .  All day and all night .  Especially all night .  Ill 
understand .  You dont have to worry about that .  

Im sorry ,  she said .  

If it was a man  

Dont say that .  It wouldnt be a man .  You know that .  
Dont you trust me ?  

Thats funny ,  he said .  Trust you .  Thats really funny .  

Im sorry ,  she said .  Thats all I seem to say .  But when 
we do understand each other theres no use to pretend we 
dont .  

No ,  he said .  I suppose not .  

Ill come back if you want me .  

No .  I dont want you .  

Then they did not say anything for a while .  

You dont believe I love you ,  do you ?  the girl asked .  

Lets not talk rot ,  the man said .  

Dont you really believe I love you ?  

Why dont you prove it ?  

You didnt use to be that way .  You never asked me to 
prove anything .  That isnt polite .  

Youre a funny girl .  

Youre not .  Youre a fine man and it breaks my heart to 
go off and leave you  

You have to ,  of course .  

Yes /  she said .  I have to and you know it .  

He did not say anything and she looked at him and put 
her hand out again .  The barman was at the far end of the 



THESEACHANGE 371 

bar .  His face was white and so was his jacket .  He knew these 
two and thought them a handsome young couple .  He had 
seen many handsome young couples break up and new couples 
form that were never so handsome long .  He was not thinking 
about this ,  but % about a horse .  In half an hour he could send 
across the street to find if the horse had won .  

Couldnt you just be good to me and let me go ?  5 the girl 
asked .  

What do you think Im going to do ?  5 

Two people came in the door and went up to the bar .  

Yes ,  sir ,  the barman took the orders .  

You cant forgive me ?  When you know about it ?  5 the girl 
asked .  

No .  

You dont think things weve had and done should make 
any difference in understanding ?  

  " Vice is a monster of such fearful mien ,  "   the young man 
said bitterly ,  that to be something or other needs but to be 
seen .  Then we something ,  something ,  then embrace .  He 
could not remember the words .  I cant quote ,  he said .  

Lets not say vice ,  she said .  Thats not very polite .  5 

Perversion ,  he said .  

James ,  one of the clients addressed the barman ,  youre 
looking very well .  

Youre looking very well yourself ,  the barman said .  

Old James ,  the other client said .  Youre fatter ,  James .  

Its terrible ,  the barman said ,  the way I put it on .  

Dont neglect to insert the brandy ,  James ,  the first client 
said .  

No ,  sir ,  said the barman .  Trust me .  

The two at the bar looked over at the two at the table ,  
then looked back at the barman again .  Towards the barman 
was the comfortable direction .  

Td like it better if you didnt use words like that ,  the girl 
said .  Theres no necessity to use a word like that .  

What do you want me to call it ?  5 



372 THESEACHANGE 

You dont have to call it .  You dont have to put any 
name to it .  

Thats the name for it .  

No ,  she said .  Were made up of all sorts of things .  
Youve known that .  Youve used it well enough .  

You dont have to say that again .  

Because that explains it to you .  

All right /  he said .  All right .  

You mean all wrong .  I know .  Its all wrong .  But Ill come 
back .  I told you Id come back .  Ill come back right away /  

No ,  you wont .  

Til come back .  

No ,  you wont .  Not to me .  

Youll see .  

Yes ,  he said .  Thats the hell of it .  You probably will /  

Of course I will .  

Go on ,  then .  

Really ?  She could not believe him ,  but her voice was 
happy .  

Go on ,  his voice sounded strange to him .  He was looking 
at her ,  at the way her mouth went and the curve of her cheek -  
bones ,  at her eyes and at the way her hair grew on her fore -  
head and at the edge of her ear and at her neck .  

Not really .  Oh ,  youre too sweet ,  she said .  Youre too 
good to me .  

And when you come back tell me all about it .  His voice 
sounded very strange .  He did not recognize it .  She looked 
at him quickly .  He was settled into something .  

You want me to go ?  she asked seriously .  

Yes ,  he said seriously .  Right away .  His voice was not 
the same ,  and his mouth was very dry .  Now ,  he said .  

She stood up and went out quickly .  She did not look back 
at him .  He watched her go .  He was not the same - looking 
man as he had been before he had told her to go .  He got up 
from the table ,  picked up the two checks and went over to 
the bar with them .  



THESEACHANGE 373 

Tm a different man ,  James ,  he said to the barman .  
 " You see in me quite a different man .  

Yes ,  sir ?  said James .  

Vice ,  said the brown young man ,  is a very strange thing ,  
James .  He loqked out the door .  He saw her going down the 
street .  As he looked in the glass ,  he saw he was really quite a 
different - looking man .  The other two at the bar moved down 
to make room for him .  

Youre right there ,  sir ,  James said .  

The other two moved down a little more ,  so that he would 
be quite comfortable .  The young man saw himself in the 
mirror behind the bar .  I said I was a different man ,  James ,  
he said .  Looking into the mirror he saw that this was quite 
true .  

You look very well ,  sir ,  James said .  You must have had 
a very good summer .  



A WAY YOULL NEVER BE 

THE attack had gone across the field ,  been held up by 
machine - gun fire from the sunken road and from the group 
of farm houses ,  encountered no resistance in the town ,  and 
reached the bank of the river .  Coming along the road on a 
bicycle ,  getting off to push the machine when the surface of 
the road became too broken ,  Nicholas Adams saw what had 
happened by the position of the dead .  

They lay alone or in clumps in the high grass of the fields 
and along the road ,  their pockets out ,  and over them were 
flies and around each body or group of bodies were the 
scattered papers .  

In the grass and the grain ,  beside the road ,  and in some 
places scattered over the road ,  there was much material: a 
field kitchen ,  it must have come over when things were going 
well ;  many of the calf - skin - covered haversacks ,  stick bombs ,  
helmets ,  rifles ,  sometimes one butt - up ,  the bayonets stuck in 
the dirt ,  they had dug quite a little at the last ;  stick bombs ,  
helmets ,  rifles ,  entrenching tools ,  ammunition boxes ,  star -  
shell pistols ,  their shells scattered about ,  medical kits ,  gas 
masks ,  empty gas mask cans ,  a squat ,  tripodded machine -  
gun in a nest of empty shells ,  full belts protruding from the 
boxes ,  the water - cooling can empty and on its side ,  the breech 
block gone ,  the crew in odd positions ,  and around them ,  in 
the grass ,  more of the typical papers .  

There were mass prayer books ,  group postcards showing the 
machine - gun unit standing in ranked and ruddy cheerfulness 
as in a football picture for a college annual ;  now they were 
humped and swollen in the grass ;  propaganda postcards 
showing a soldier in Austrian uniform bending a woman 
backward over a bed ;  the figures were impressionistically 
drawn ;  very attractively depicted and had nothing in com -  
mon with actual rape in which the womans skirts are pulled 

374 



AWAYYOULLNEVERBE 375 

over her head to smother her ,  one comrade sometimes sitting 
upon the head .  There were many of these inciting cards 
which had evidently been issued just before the offensive .  
Now they were scattered with the smutty postcards ,  photo -  
graphic ;  the small photographs of village girls by village 
photographers ,  the occasional pictures of children ,  and the 
letters ,  letters ,  letters .  There was always much paper about 
the dead and the debris of this attack was no exception .  

These were new dead and no one had bothered with any -  
thing but their pockets .  Our own dead ,  or what he thought 
of ,  still as our own dead ,  were surprisingly few ,  Nick noticed .  
Their coats had been opened too and their pockets were out ,  
and they showed ,  by their positions ,  the manner and the 
skill of the attack .  The hot weather had swollen them all 
alike regardless of nationality .  

The town had evidently been defended ,  at the last ,  from 
the line of the sunken road and there had been few or no 
Austrians to fall back into it .  There were only three bodies 
in the street and they looked to have been killed running .  
The houses of the town were broken by the shelling and the 
street had much rubble of plaster and mortar and there were 
broken beams ,  broken tiles ,  and many holes ,  some of them 
yellow - edged from the mustard gas .  There were many pieces 
of shell ,  and shrapnel balls were scattered in the rubble .  
There was no one in the town at all .  

Nick Adams had seen no one since he had left Fornaci ,  
although ,  riding along the road  . through the over - foliaged 
country ,  he had seen guns hidden under screens of mulberry 
leaves to the left of the road ,  noticing them by the heat - waves 
in the air above the leaves where the sun hit the metal .  Now 
he went on through the town ,  surprised to find it deserted ,  
and came out on the low road beneath the bank of the river .  
Leaving the town there was a bare open space where the road 
slanted down and he could see the placid reach of the river 
and the low curve of the opposite bank and the whitened ,  ,  
sun - baked mud where the Austrians had dug .  It was all 



376 AWAYYOULLNEVERBE 

very lush and evergreen since he had seen it last and becom -  
ing historical had made no change in this ,  the lower river .  

The battalion was along the bank to the left .  There was a 
series of holes in the top of the bank with a few men in them .  
Nick noticed where the machine - guns were posted and the 
signal rockets in their racks .  The men in the holes in the side 
of the bank were sleeping .  No one challenged .  He went on 
and as he came around a turn in the mud bank a young 
second lieutentant with a stubble of beard and red - rimmed ,  
very bloodshot eyes pointed a pistol at him .  

Who are you ?  

Nick told him .  

How do I know this ?  

Nick showed him the tessera with photograph and identi -  
fication and the seal of the third army .  He took hold of it .  

I will keep this .  

You will not ,  Nick said .  Give me back the card and put 
your gun away .  There .  In the holster .  

How am I to know who you are ?  

The tessera tells you .  

And if the tessera is false ?  Give me that card .  5 

Dont be a fool ,  Nick said cheerfully .  Take me to your 
company commander .  

I should send you to battalion headquarters .  

All right ,  said Nick .  Listen ,  do you know the Captain 
Paravicini ?  The tall one with the small moustache who was 
an architect and speaks English ?  

You know him ?  

A little .  

What company does he command ?  

The second .  5 

He is commanding the battalion .  

Good ,  said Nick .  He was relieved to know that Para was 
all right .  Let us go to the battalion .  

As Nick had left the edge of the town three shrapnel had 
burst high and to the right over one of the wrecked houses 



A WAY YOULL NEVER BE 377 

and since then there had been no shelling .  But the face of 
this officer looked like the face of a man during a bombard -  
ment .  There was the same tightness and the voice did not 
sound natural .  His pistol made Nick nervous .  

Tut it away ,  5 he said .  Theres the whole river between 
them and you .  

4 If I thought you were a spy I would shoot you now /  the 
second lieutenant said .  

Come on ,  said Nick .  Let us go to the battalion .  This 
officer made him very nervous .  

The Captain Paravicini ,  acting major ,  thinner and more 
English - looking than ever ,  rose when Nick saluted from 
behind the table in the dugout that was battalion head -  
quarters .  

Hello ,  he said .  I didnt know you .  What are you doing 
in that uniform ?  

Theyve put me in it .  

I am very glad to see you ,  Nicolo .  

Right .  You look well .  How was the show ?  

We made a very fine attack .  Truly .  A very fine attack .  
I will show you .  Look .  

He showed on the map how the attack had gone .  

T came from Fornaci ,  Nick said .  I could see how it had 
been .  It was very good .  

It was extraordinary .  Altogether extraordinary .  Are you 
attached to the regiment ?  

No .  I am supposed to move around and let them see the 
uniform .  

How odd .  

If they see one American uniform that is supposed to make 
them believe others are coming .  

But how will they know it is an American uniform ?  

You will tell them .  

Oh .  Yes ,  I see .  I will send a corporal with you to show 
you about and you will make a tour of the lines .  5 

Like a bloody politician /  Nick said .  



378 A WAY YOULL NEVER BE 

You would be much more distinguished in civilian clothes .  
They are what is really distinguished .  

With a homburg hat ,  said Nick .  

Or with a very furry fedora .  

Tm supposed to have my pockets full of cigarettes and 
postal cards and such things /  Nick said .  I should have a 
musette full of chocolate .  These I should distribute with a 
kind word and a pat on the back .  But there werent any 
cigarettes and postcards and no chocolate .  So they said to 
circulate around anyway .  

Tm sure your appearance will be very heartening to the 
troops .  

I wish you wouldnt ,  Nick said .  I feel badly enough 
about it as it is .  In principle ,  I would have brought you a 
bottle of brandy .  5 

In principle ,  Para said and smiled ,  for the first time ,  
showing yellowed teeth .  Such a beautiful expression .  Would 
you like some Grappa ?  

No ,  thank you ,  Nick said .  

It hasnt any ether in it .  

I can taste that still /  Nick remembered suddenly and 
completely .  

You know I never knew you were drunk until you started 
talking coming back in the camions .  

I was stinking in every attack /  Nick said .  

I cant do it /  Para said .  I took it in the first show ,  the 
very first show ,  and it only made me very upset and then 
frightfully thirsty .  

You dont need it .  

Youre much braver in an attack than I am .  

No /  Nick said .  I know how I am and I prefer to get 
stinking .  Im not ashamed of it .  

Ive never seen you drunk .  

No ?  said Nick .  Never ?  Not when we rode from Mestre 
to Portogrande that night and I wanted to go to sleep and 
used the bicycle for a blanket and pulled it up under my chin ?  



AWAYYOULLNEVERBE 379 

That wasnt in the lines .  5 

Lets not talk about how I am /  Nick said .  Its a subject 
I know too much about to want to think about it any more /  

You might as well stay here a while /  Paravicini said .  
You can take a nap if you like .  They didnt do much to this 
in the bombardment .  Its too hot to go out yet .  

C I suppose there is no hurry .  5 

How are you really ?  5 

Im fine .  Im perfectly all right .  5 

No .  I mean really .  5 

Tm all right .  I cant sleep without a light of some sort .  
Thats all I have now .  5 

I said it should have been trepanned .  Im no doctor but 
I know that .  5 

Well ,  they thought it was better to have it absorb ,  and 
thats what I got .  Whats the matter ?  I dont seem crazy to 
you ,  do I ?  5 

You seem in top - hole shape .  5 

Its a hell of a nuisance once theyve had you certified as 
nutty /  Nick said .  No one ever has any confidence in you 
again .  

I would take a nap ,  Nicolo /  Paravicini said .  This isnt 
battalion headquarters as we used to know it .  Were just 
waiting to be pulled out .  You oughtnt to go out in the heat 
now its silly .  Use that bunk .  5 

I might just lie down /  Nick said .  

Nick lay on the bunk .  He was very disappointed that he 
felt this way and more disappointed ,  even ,  that it was so 
obvious to Captain Paravicini .  This was not as large  - a dug -  
out as the one where that platoon of the class of 1899 ,  just 
out at the front ,  got hysterics during the bombardment 
before the attack ,  and Para had had him walk them two at 
a time outside to show them nothing would happen ,  he 
wearing his own chin strap tight across his mouth to keep his 
lips quiet .  Knowing they could not hold it when they took 
it .  Knowing it was all a bloody bells If he can 5 t stop cry -  



380 A WAY YOULL NEVER BE 

ing ,  break his nose to give him something else to think about .  
Id shoot one but its too late now .  Theyd all be worse .  
Break his nose .  Theyve put it back to five - twenty .  Weve 
only got four minutes more .  Break that other silly buggers 
nose and kick his silly ass out of here .  Do you think theyll 
go over ?  If they dont ,  shoot two and try to scoop the others 
out some way .  Keep behind them ,  sergeant .  Its no use to 
walk ahead and find theres nothing coming behind you .  
Bail them out as you go .  What a bloody bells .  All right .  
Thats right .  Then ,  looking at the watch ,  in that quiet tone ,  
that valuable quiet tone ,  Sovoia .  Making it cold ,  no time 
to get it ,  he couldnt find his own after the cave - in ,  one 
whole end had caved in ;  it was that started them ;  making it 
cold up that slope the only time he hadnt done it stinking .  
And after they came back the teleferica house burned ,  it 
seemed ,  and some of the wounded got down four days later 
and some did not get down ,  but we went up and we went 
back and we came down we always came down .  And 
there was Gaby Deslys ,  oddly enough ,  with feathers on ;  you 
called me baby doll a year ago tadada you said that I was 
rather nice to know tadada with feathers on ,  with feathers 
off ,  the great Gaby ,  and my names Harry Piker ,  too ,  we 
used to step out of the far side of the taxis when it got steep 
going up the hill and he could see that hill every night when 
he dreamed with Sacre Coeur ,  blown white ,  like a soap 
bubble .  Sometimes his girl was there and sometimes she was 
with someone else and he could not understand that ,  but 
those were the nights the river ran so much wider and stiller 
than it should and outside of Fossalta there was a low house 
painted yellow with willows all around it and a low stable 
and there was a canal ,  and he had been there a thousand 
times and never seen it ,  but there it was every night as plain 
as the hill ,  only it frightened him .  That house meant more 
than anything and every night he had it .  That was what he 
needed but it frightened him especially when the boat lay 
there quietly in the willows on the canal ,  but the banks 



A WAY YOULL NEVER BE 381 

werent like this river .  It was all lower ,  as it was at Porto -  
grande ,  where they had seen them come wallowing across the 
flooded ground holding the rifles high until they fell with 
them in the water .  Who ordered that one ?  If it didnt get 
so damned mixed up he could follow it all right .  That was 
why he noticed everything in such detail to keep it all 
straight so he would know just where he was ,  but suddenly 
it confused without reason as now ,  he lying in a bunk at 
battalion headquarters ,  with Para commanding a battalion 
and he in a bloody American uniform .  He sat up and looked 
around ;  they all watching him .  Para was gone out .  He lay 
down again .  

The Paris part came earlier and he was not frightened of it 
except when she had gone off with someone else and the fear -  
that they might take the same driver twice .  That was what 
frightened about that .  Never about the front .  He never 
dreamed about the front now any more but what frightened 
him so that he could not get rid of it was that long yellow 
house and the different width of the river .  Now he was back 
here at the river ,  he had gone through that same town ,  and 
there was no house .  Nor was the river that way .  Then where 
did he go each night and what was the peril ,  and why would 
he wake ,  soaking wet ,  more frightened than he had ever been 
in a bombardment ,  because of a house and a long stable and 
a canal ?  

He sat up ,  swung his legs carefully down ;  they stiffened 
any time they were out straight for long ;  returned the stares 
of the adjutant ,  the signallers and the two runners by the 
door and put on his cloth - covered trench helmet .  

I regret the absence of the chocolate ,  the postal - cards and 
cigarettes ,  he said .  I am ,  however ,  wearing the uniform .  

The Major is coming back at once ,  the adjutant said .  In 
that army an adjutant is not a commissioned officer .  

The uniform is not very correct ,  Nick told them .  But it 
gives you the idea .  There will be several millions of Ameri -  
cans here shortly .  



382 AWAYYOULLNEVERBE 

Do you think they will send Americans down here ?  asked 
the adjutant .  

Oh ,  absolutely .  Americans twice as large as myself ,  
healthy ,  with clean hearts ,  sleep at night ,  never been 
wounded ,  never been blown up ,  never had their heads caved 
in ,  never been scared ,  dont drink ,  faithful to the girls they 
left behind them ,  many of them never had crabs ,  wonderful 
chaps .  Youll see .  

Are you an Italian ?  asked the adjutant .  

No ,  American .  Look at the uniform .  Spagnolini made it 
but its not quite correct .  

A North or South American ?  

North ,  said Nick .  He felt it coming on now .  He would 
quiet down .  

But you speak Italian .  

Why not ?  Do you mind if I speak Italian ?  Havent I a 
right to speak Italian ?  

You have Italian medals .  

Just the ribbons and the papers .  The medals come later .  
Or you give them to people to keep and the people go away ;  
or they are lost with your baggage .  You can purchase others 
in Milan .  It is the papers that are of importance .  You must 
not feel badly about them .  You will have some yourself if 
you stay at the front long enough .  

I am a veteran of the Iritrea campaign ,  said the adjutant 
stiffly .  I fought in Tripoli .  

Its quite something to have met you ,  Nick put out his 
hand .  Those must have been trying days .  I noticed the 
ribbons .  Were you ,  by any chance ,  on the Garso ?  

I have just been called up for this war .  My class was too old .  

At one time I was under the age limit ,  Nick said .  But 
now I am reformed out of the war .  5 

But why are you here now ?  

I am demonstrating the American uniform /  Nick said .  
Dont you think it is very significant ?  It is a little tight in 
the collar but soon you will see untold millions wearing this 



A WAY YOULL NEVER BE 383 

uniform swarming like locusts .  The grasshopper ,  you know ,  
what we call the grasshopper in America ,  is really a locust .  
The true grasshopper is small and green and comparatively 
feeble .  You must not ,  however ,  make a confusion with the 
seven - year locust or cicada which emits a peculiar sustained 
sound which at the moment I cannot recall .  I try to recall it 
but I cannot .  I can almost hear it and then it is quite gone .  
You will pardon me if I break off our conversation ?  

See if you can find the major ,  the adjutant said to one of 
the two runners .  C I can see you have been wounded ,  he said 
to Nick .  

c ln various places ,  Nick said .  If you are interested in scars 
I can show you some very interesting ones but I would rather 
talk about grasshoppers .  What we call grasshoppers that is ;  
and what are ,  really ,  locusts .  These insects at one time played 
a very important part in my life .  It might interest you and 
you can look at the uniform while I am talking .  

The adjutant made a motion with his hand to the second 
runner who went out .  

Fix your eyes on the uniform .  Spagnolini made it ,  you 
know .  You might as well look ,  too /  Nick said to the sig -  
nallers .  I really have no rank .  Were under the American 
consul .  Its perfectly all right for you to look .  You can stare ,  
if you like .  I will tell you about the American locust .  We 
always preferred one that we called the medium - brown .  
They last the best in the water and fish prefer them .  The 
larger ones that fly making a noise somewhat similar to that 
produced by a rattlesnake rattling his rattlers ,  a very dry 
sound ,  have vivid coloured wings ,  some are bright red ,  others 
yellow barred with black ,  but their wings go to pieces in the 
water and they make a very blowsy bait ,  while the medium -  
brown is a plump ,  compact ,  succulent hopper that I can 
recommend as far as one may well recommend something 
you gentlemen will probably never encounter .  But I must 
insist that you will never gather a sufficient supply of these 
insects for a days fishing by pursuing them with your hands 



384 A WAY YOULL NEVER BE 

or trying to hit them with a bat .  That is sheer nonsense and 
a useless waste of time .  I repeat ,  gentlemen ,  that you will 
get nowhere at it .  The correct procedure ,  and one which 
should be taught all young officers at every small - arms course 
if I had anything to say about it ,  and who knows but what I 
will have ,  is the employment of a seine or net made of com -  
mon mosquito netting .  Two officers holding this length of 
netting at alternate ends ,  or let us say one at each end ,  stoop ,  
hold the bottom extremity of the net in one hand and the 
top extremity in the othei ;  and run into the wind .  The 
hoppers ,  flying with the wind ,  fly against the length of 
netting and are imprisoned in its folds .  It is no trick at all 
to catch a very great quantity indeed ,  and no officer ,  in my 
opinion ,  should be without a length of mosquito netting 
suitable for the improvisation of one of these grasshopper 
seines .  I hope I have made myself clear ,  gentlemen .  Are 
there any questions ?  If there is anything in the course you 
do not understand please ask questions .  Speak up .  None ?  
Then I would like to close on this note .  In the words of that 
great soldier and gentleman ,  Sir Henry Wilson: Gentlemen ,  
either you must govern or you must be governed .  Let me 
repeat it .  Gentlemen ,  there is one thing I would like to have 
you remember .  One thing I would like you to take with you 
as you leave this room .  Gentlemen ,  either you must govern 
or you must be governed .  That is all ,  gentlemen .  Good - day /  

He removed his cloth - covered helmet ,  put it on again and ,  
stooping ,  went out the low entrance of the dugout .  Para ,  
accompanied by the two runners ,  was coming down the line 
of the sunken road .  It was very hot in the sun and Nick 
removed the helmet .  

There ought to be a system for wetting these things ,  he 
said .  I shall wet this one in the river .  He started up the bank .  

Nicolo ,  Paravicini called .  Nicolo .  Where are you going ?  

*I dont really have to go .  Nick came down the slope ,  
holding the helmet in his hands .  Theyre a damned nuisance 
wet or dry .  Do you wear yours all the time ?  



A WAY YOULL NEVER BE 385 

All the time ,  said Para .  Its making me bald .  Come 
inside .  

Inside Para told him to sit down .  

You know theyre absolutely no damned good /  Nick said .  
I remember when they were a comfort when we first had 
them ,  but Ive seen them full of brains too many times .  5 

Nicolo /  Para said .  I think you should go back .  I think 
it would be better if you didnt come up to the line until you 
had those supplies .  Theres nothing here for you to do .  If 
you move around ,  even with something worth giving away ,  
the men will group and that invites shelling .  I wont have it /  

e l know its silly ,  Nick said .  It wasnt my idea .  I heard 
the brigade was here so I thought I would see you or someone 
else I knew .  I could have gone to Zenzon or to San Dona .  
Id like to go to San Dona to see the bridge again .  

I wont have you circulating around to no purpose /  
Captain Paravicini said .  

All right ,  said Nick .  He felt it coming on again .  

You understand ?  

Of course ,  said Nick .  He was trying to hold it in .  

Anything of that sort should be done at night .  

Naturally ,  said Nick .  He knew he could not stop it now .  

You see ,  I am commanding the battalion /  Para said .  

And why shouldnt you be ?  Nick said .  Here it came .  
You can read and write ,  cant you ?  

Yes /  said Para gently .  

The trouble is you have a damned small battalion to com -  
mand .  As soon as it gets to strength again theyll give you 
back your company .  Why dont they bury the dead ?  Ive 
seen them now .  I dont care about seeing them again .  
They can bury them any time as far as Im concerned and 
it would be much better for you .  Youll all get bloody sick .  

Where did you leave your bicycle ?  

Inside the last house .  5 

Do you think it will be all right ?  5 

Dont worry /  Nick said .  Ill go in a little while .  5 

BB 



386 A WAY YOULL NEVER BE 

Lie down a little while ,  Nicolo .  

All right .  

He shut his eyes ,  and in place of the man with the beard 
who looked at him over the sights of the rifle ,  quite calmly 
before squeezing off ,  the white flash and dublike impact ,  
on his knees ,  hot - sweet choking ,  coughing it on to the rock 
while they went past him ,  he saw a long ,  yellow house with 
a low stable and the river much wider than it was and stiller .  
Christ /  he said ,  I might as well go .  

He stood up .  

Tm going ,  Para ,  he said .  Til ride back now in the after -  
noon .  If any supplies have come Ill bring them down 
to - night .  If not Ill come at night when I have something to 
bring .  

It is still hot to ride ,  Captain Paravicini said .  

You dont need to worry ,  Nick said .  Im all right now for 
quite a while .  I had one then but it was easy ;  Theyre 
getting much better .  I can tell when Im going to have one 
because I talk so much .  

Til send a runner with you .  

Td rather you didnt .  I know the way .  

Youll be back soon ?  

Absolutely .  

Let me send  

No ,  said Nick .  As a mark of confidence .  

Well ,  Ciaou then .  

Ciaou ,  said Nick .  He started back along the sunken road 
toward where he had left the bicycle .  In the afternoon the 
road would be shady once he had passed the canal .  Beyond 
that there were trees on both sides that had not been shelled 
at all .  It was on that stretch that ,  marching ,  they had once 
passed the Terza Savoia cavalry regiment riding in the snow 
with their lances .  The horses breath made plumes in the 
cold air .  No ,  that was somewhere else .  Where was that ?  

Td better get to that damned bicycle ,  Nick said to him -  
self .  *I dont want to lose the way to Fornaci .  



THE MOTHER OF A QUEEN 

WHEN his father died he was only a kid and his manager 
buried him perpetually .  That is ,  so he would have the plot 
permanently .  But when his mother died his manager thought 
they might not always be so hot on each other .  They were 
sweethearts ;  sure hes a queen ,  didnt you know that ,  of 
course he is .  So he just buried her for five years .  

Well ,  when he came back to Mexico from Spain he got the 
first notice .  It said it was the first notice that the five years 
were up and would he make arrangements for the continuing 
of his mothers grave .  It was only twenty dollars for per -  
petual .  I had the cash box then and I said let me attend to 
it ,  Paco .  But he said no ,  he would look after it .  Hed look 
after it right away .  It was his mother and he wanted to do 
it himself .  

Then in a week he got the second notice .  I read it to him 
and I said I thought he had looked after it .  

No ,  he said ,  he hadnt .  

Let me do it ,  I said .  Its right here in the cash box .  

No ,  he said .  Nobody could tell him what to do .  Hed do 
it himself when he got around to it .  Whats the sense in 
spending money sooner than necessary ?  

All right ,  I said ,  but see you look after it .  At this time he 
had a contract for six fights at four thousand pesos a fight 
besides his benefit fight .  He made over fifteen thousand 
dollars there in the capital alone .  He was just tight ,  thats all .  

The third notice came in another week and I read it to 
him .  It said that if he did not make the payment by the 
following Saturday his mothers grave would be opened and 
her remains dumped on the common boneheap .  He said he 
would go attend to it that afternoon when he went to town .  

Why not have me do it ?  5 I asked him .  

Keep out of my business ,  he said .  Its my business and 
Im going to do it .  

387 



388 THE MOTHER OF A QUEEN 

All right ,  if thats the way you feel about it ,  I said .  Do 
your own business .  

He got the money out of the cash box ,  although then he 
always carried a hundred or more pesos with him all the 
time ,  and he said he would look after it .  Hq ,  went out with 
the money and so of course I thought he had attended to it .  

A week later the notice came that they had no response to 
the final warning and so his mothers body had been dumped 
on the boneheap ;  on the public boneheap .  

Jesus Christ /  I said to him ,  you said youd pay that 
and you took money out of the cash box to do it and now 
whats happened to your mother ?  My God ,  think of it! 
The public boneheap and your own mother .  Why didnt 
you let me look after it ?  I would have sent it when the first 
notice came .  

Its none of your business .  Its my mother .  3 

Its none of my business ,  yes ,  but it was jour business .  What 
kind of blood is it in a man that will let that be done to his 
mother ?  You dont deserve to have a mother .  

It is my mother ,  he said .  Now she is so much dearer to 
me .  Now I dont have to think of her buried in one place 
and be sad .  Now she is all about me in the air ,  like the birds 
and the flowers .  Now she will always be with me .  

Jesus Christ /  I said ,  what kind of blood have you any -  
way ?  I dont want you even to speak to me .  

She is all around me ,  he said .  Now I will never be sad .  

At that time he was spending all kinds of money around 
women trying to make himself seem a man and fool people ,  
but it didnt have any effect on people that knew anything 
about him .  He owed me over six hundred pesos and he 
wouldnt pay me .  Why do you want it now ?  hed say .  
Dont you trust me ?  Arent we friends ?  

It isnt friends or trusting you .  Its that I paid the 
accounts out of my own money while you were away and now 
I need the money back and you have it to pay me .  3 

I havent got it .  



THEMOTHEROFAQUEEN 389 

You have it ,  I said .  Its in the cash box now and you can 
pay me .  

I need that money for something ,  he said .  You dont 
know all the needs I have for money .  

I stayed here all the time you were in Spain and you 
authorized me to pay these things as they came up ,  all these 
things of the house ,  and you didnt send any money while you 
were gone and I paid over six hundred pesos in my own 
money and now I need it and you can pay me .  

Til pay you soon ,  he said .  Right now I need the money 
badly .  

For what ?  

For my own business .  

Why dont you pay me some on account ?  

I cant ,  he said .  I need that money too badly .  But I will 
pay you /  

He had only fought twice in Spain ,  they couldnt stand him 
there ,  they saw through him quick enough ,  and he had seven 
new fighting suits made and this is the kind of thing he was: 
he had them packed so badly that four of them were ruined 
by sea water on the trip back and he couldnt even wear them .  

My God ,  I said to him ,  you go to Spain .  You stay there 
the whole season and only fight two times .  You spend all the 
money you took with you on suits and then have them 
spoiled by salt water so you cant wear them .  That is the 
kind of season you have and then you talk to me about 
running your own business .  Why dont you pay me the 
money you owe me so I can leave ?  

I want you here ,  he said ,  and I will pay you .  But now I 
need the money .  

You need it too badly to pay for your own mothers 
grave to keep your mother buried .  Dont you ?  I said .  

I am happy about what has happened to my mother ,  he 
said .  You cannot understand .  

Thank Christ I cant ,  I said .  You pay me what you owe 
me or I will take it out of the cash box .  



390 THE MOTHER OF A QUEEN 

I will keep the cash box myself /  he said .  

No ,  you wont /  I said 

That very afternoon he came to me with a punk ,  some 
fellow from his own town who was broke ,  and said ,  Here is 
a paesano who needs money to go home because his mother 
is very sick .  This fellow was just a punk ,  you understand ,  a 
nobody hed never seen before ,  but from his home town ,  and 
he wanted to be the big ,  generous matador with a fellow 
townsman .  

Give him fifty pesos from the cash box ,  he told me .  

You just told me you had no money to pay me ,  I said .  
And now you want to give fifty pesos to this punk .  

He is a fellow townsman ,  he said ,  and he is in distress .  

You bitch ,  I said .  I gave him the key of the cash box .  
Get it yourself .  Im going to town .  

Dont be angry ,  he said .  Im going to pay you .  

I got the car out to go to town .  It was his car but he knew 
I drove it better than he did .  Everything he did I could do 
better .  He knew it .  He couldnt even read and write .  I was 
going to see somebody and see what I could do about 
making him pay me .  He came out and said ,  Im coming 
with you and Im going to pay you .  We are good friends .  
There is no need to quarrel .  

We drove into the city and I was driving .  Just before we 
came into the town he pulled out twenty pesos .  

Heres the money ,  he said .  

You motherless bitch /  I said to him and told him what he 
could do with the money .  You give fifty pesos to that punk 
and then offer me twenty when you owe me six hundred .  I 
wouldnt take a nickel from you .  You know what you can do 
with it .  

I got out of the car without a peso in my pocket and I 
didnt know where I was going to sleep that night .  Later I 
went out with a friend and got my things from his place .  I 
never spoke to him again until this year .  I met him walking 
with three friends in the evening on the way to the Callao 



THE MOTHER OF A QUEEN 391 

cinema in the Gran Via in Madrid .  He put his hand out 
to me .  

Hello ,  Roger ,  old friend ,  he said to me .  How are you ?  
People say you are talking against me .  That you say all sorts 
of unjust tilings about me .  

All I say is you never had a mother ,  I said to him .  Thats 
the worst thing you can say to insult a man in Spanish .  

Thats true ,  he said .  My poor mother died when I was so 
young it seems as though I never had a mother .  Its very 
sad .  

Theres a queen for you .  You cant touch them .  Nothing ,  
nothing can touch them .  They spend money on themselves 
or for vanity ,  but they never pay .  Try to get one to pay .  
I told him what I thought of him right there on the Gran 
Via ,  in front of three friends ,  but he speaks to me now when 
I meet him as though we were friends .  What kind of blood 
is it that makes a man like that ?  



ONE READER WRITES 

SHE sat at the table in her bedroom with a newspaper folded 
open before her and only stopping to look out of the window 
at the snow which was falling and melting on the roofs as it 
fell .  She wrote this letter ,  writing it steadily with no necessity 
to cross out or rewrite anything .  

Roanoke ,  Virginia 

February 6th ,  1933 
Dear Doctor ,  

May I write you for some very important advice I have 
a decision to make and dont know just whom to trust most ,  
I dare not ask my parents and so I come to you and only 
because I need not see you ,  can I confide in you even .  Now 
here is the situation I married a man in U . S .  service in 
1929 and that same year he was sent to China ,  Shanghai 
he stayed three years and came home he was dis -  
charged from the service some few months ago and went 
to his mothers home in Helena ,  Arkansas .  He wrote for me 
to come home  -  1 went ,  and found he is taking a course of in -  
jections and I naturally ask ,  and found he is being treated for 
I dont know how to spell the word but it sounds like this 
sifilus Do you know what I mean now tell me will it 
ever be safe for me to live with him again I did not come 
in Close contact with him at any time since his return from 
China .  He assures me he will be OK after this doctor finishes 
with him Do you think it right I often heard my Father 
say one could well wish themselves dead if once they became 
a victim of that malady I believe my Father but want to 
believe my Husband most Please ,  please tell me what to 
do  - I have a daughter born while her Father was in China 

Thanking you and trusting wholly in your advice I am 

and signed her name .  

392 



ONE READER WRITES 393 

Maybe he can tell me whats right to do ,  she said to herself .  
Maybe he can tell me .  In the picture in the paper he looks 
like hed know .  He looks smart ,  all right .  Every day he tells 
somebody what to do .  He ought to know .  I want to do 
whatever is right .  Its such a long time though .  Its a long 
time .  And its been a long time .  My Christ ,  its been a long 
time .  He had to go wherever they sent him ,  I know ,  but 
I dont know what he had to get it for .  Oh ,  I wish to Christ 
he wouldnt have got it /  I dont care what he did to get it .  
But I wish to Christ he hadnt ever got it .  It does seem like 
he didnt have to have got it .  I dont know what to do .  I 
wish to Christ he hadnt got any kind of malady .  I dont know 
why he had to get a malady .  



HOMAGE TO SWITZERLAND 

PARTI 
PORTRAIT OF MR .  WHEELER IN MONTREUX 

INSIDE the station cafe it was warm and light .  The wood of 
the tables shone from wiping and there were baskets of 
pretzels in glazed paper sacks .  The chairs were carved ,  but 
the seats were worn and comfortable .  There was a carved 
wooden clock on the wall and a bar at the far end of the room .  
Outside the window it was snowing .  

Two of the station porters sat drinking new wine at the 
table under the clock .  Another porter came in and said the 
Simplon - Orient Express was an hour late at Saint - Maurice .  
He went out .  The waitress came over to Mr .  Wheelers 
table .  

The Express is an hour late ,  sir /  she said .  Can I bring 
you some coffee ?  

If you think it wont keep me awake .  

Please ?  asked the waitress .  

Bring me some /  said Mr .  Wheeler .  

Thank you .  

She brought the coffee from the kitchen and Mr .  Wheeler 
looked out the window at the snow falling in the light from 
the station platform .  

Do you speak other languages besides English ?  he asked 
the waitress .  

Oh ,  yes ,  sir .  I speak German and French and the 
dialects .  

Would you like a drink of something ?  

Oh ,  no ,  sir .  It is not permitted to drink in the cafe with 
the clients .  

You wont take a cigar ?  

Oh ,  no ,  sir .  I dont smoke ,  sir .  

394 



HOMAGE TO SWITZERLAND 395 

That is all right /  said Mr .  Wheeler .  He looked out of the 
window again ,  drank the coffee ,  and lit a cigarette .  

Fraulein ,  he called .  The waitress came over .  

What would you like ,  sir ?  

You ,  he said .  

You must not joke me like that .  

Im not joking .  

Then you must not say it .  

I havent time to argue ,  Mr .  Wheeler said .  The train 
comes in forty minutes .  If youll go upstairs with me Ill give 
you a hundred francs .  

You should not say such things ,  sir .  I will ask the porter 
to speak with you .  

I dont want a porter ,  Mr .  Wheeler said .  Nor a police -  
man ,  nor one of those boys that sell cigarettes .  I want you .  

If you talk like that you must go out .  You cannot stay 
here and talk like that .  

 . Why dont you go away then ?  If you go away I cant talk 
to you .  

The waitress went away .  Mr .  Wheeler watched to see if 
she spoke to the porters .  She did not .  

Mademoiselle! 3 he called .  The waitress came over .  
Bring me a bottle of Sion ,  please .  

Yes ,  sir .  

Mr .  Wheeler watched her go out ,  then come in with 
the wine and bring it to his table .  He looked toward the 
clock .  

Til give you two hundred francs ,  he said .  

Please do not say such things .  

Two hundred francs is a great deal of money .  

You will not say such things! the waitress said .  She was 
losing her English .  Mr .  Wheeler looked at her interestedly .  

Two hundred francs .  

You are hateful .  

Why dont you go away then ?  I cant talk to you if youre 
not here .  



396 HOMAGE TO SWITZERLAND 

The waitress left the table and went over to the bar .  Mr .  
Wheeler drank the wine and smiled to himself for some time .  

Mademoiselle /  he called .  The waitress pretended not to 
hear him .  Mademoiselle /  he called again .  The waitress 
came over .  

You wish something ?  5 

Very much .  Ill give you three hundred francs .  

You are hateful .  

Three hundred francs Swiss .  

She went away and Mr .  Wheeler looked after her .  A 
porter opened the door .  He was the one who had Mr .  
Wheelers bags in his charge .  

The train is coming ,  sir /  he said in French .  Mr .  Wheeler 
stood up .  

Mademoiselle /  he called .  The waitress came toward the 
table .  How much is the wine ?  

Seven francs .  

Mr .  Wheeler counted out eight francs and left them on the 
table .  He put on his coat and followed the porter onto the 
platform where the snow was falling .  

Au revoir ,  Mademoiselle .  he said .  The waitress watched 
him go .  Hes ugly ,  she thought ,  ugly and hateful .  Three 
hundred francs for a thing that is nothing to do .  How many 
times have I done that for nothing .  And no place to go here .  
If he had sense he would know there was no place .  No time 
and no place to go .  Three hundred francs to do that .  What 
people those Americans .  

Standing on the cement platform beside his bags ,  looking 
down the rails toward the headlight of the train corning 
through the snow ,  Mr .  Wheeler was thinking that it was very 
inexpensive sport .  He had only spent ,  actually ,  aside from 
the dinner ,  seven francs for a bottle of wine and a franc for 
the tip .  Seventy - five centimes would have been better .  He 
would have felt better now if the tip had been seventy - five 
centimes .  One franc Swiss is five francs French .  Mr .  
Wheeler was headed for Paris .  He was very careful about 



HOMAGE TO SWITZERLAND 397 

money and did not care for women .  He had been in that 
station before and he knew there was no upstairs to go to .  
Mr .  Wheeler never took chances .  



PART II 
MR .  JOHNSON TALKS ABOUT IT AT VEVEY 

Inside the station cafe it was warm and light ;  the tables 
were shiny from wiping and on some there were red and 
white striped tablecloths ;  and there were blue and white 
striped tablecloths on the others and on all of them baskets 
with pretzels in glazed paper sacks .  The chairs were carved 
but the wood seats were worn and comfortable .  There was 
a clock on the wall ,  a zinc bar at the far end of the room ,  and 
outside the window it was snowing .  Two of the station 
porters sat drinking new wine at the table under the clock .  

Another porter came in and said the Simplon - Orient 
Express was an hour late at Saint - Maurice .  The waitress 
came over to Mr .  Johnsons table .  

The Express is an hour late ,  sir ,  she said .  Can I bring 
you some coffee ?  

If its not too much trouble .  

Tlease ?  asked the waitress .  

Til take some .  5 

Thank you .  

She brought the coffee from the kitchen and Mr .  Johnson 
looked out the window at the snow falling in the light from 
the station platform .  

Do you speak other languages besides English ?  he asked 
the waitress .  

Oh ,  yes ,  I speak German and French and the dialects .  5 

Would you like a drink of something ?  5 

Oh ,  no ,  sir ,  it is not permitted to drink in the cafe with the 
clients .  5 



398 HOMAGE TO SWITZERLAND 

Have a cigar ?  

Oh ,  no ,  sir ,  she laughed .  I dont smoke ,  sir .  

Neither do I ,  said Johnson .  Its a dirty habit .  

The waitress went away and Johnson lit a cigarette and 
drank the coffee .  The clock on the wall marked a quarter to 
ten .  His watch was a little fast .  The train was due at ten -  
thirty an hour late meant eleven - thirty .  Johnson called to 
the waitress .  

Signorina! 

What would you like ,  sir ?  

You wouldnt like to play with me ?  Johnson asked .  The 
waitress blushed .  

No ,  sir .  

I dont mean anything violent .  You wouldnt like to make 
up ,  a party and see the night life of Vevey ?  Bring a girl friend 
if you like .  

I must work ,  the waitress said .  I have my duty here .  

I know ,  said Johnson .  But couldnt you get a substitute ?  
They used to do that in the Civil War .  

Oh ,  no ,  sir .  I must be here myself in the person .  

Where did you learn your English ?  

At the Berlitz school ,  sir .  

Tell me about it /  Johnson said .  Were the Berlitz under -  
graduates a wild lot ?  What about all this necking and pet -  
ting ?  Were there many smoothies ?  Did you ever run into 
Scott Fitzgerald ?  

Please ?  

I mean were your college days the happiest days of your 
life ?  What sort of team did Berlitz have last fall ?  

You are joking ,  sir ?  

Only feebly ,  said Johnson .  Youre an awfully good girl .  
And you dont want to play with me ?  

Oil ,  no ,  sir ,  said the waitress .  Would you like me to bring 
you something ?  

Yes ,  said Johnson .  Would you bring me the wine list ?  

Yes ,  sir .  



HOMAGE TO SWITZERLAND 399 

Johnson walked over with the wine list to the table where 
the three porters sat .  They looked up at him .  They were old 
men .  

Wollen Sie trinken ?  5 he asked .  One of them nodded and 
smiled .  

Oui ,  monsieur .  5 

You speak French ?  

Oui ,  monsieur .  5 

What shall we drink ?  Connais vous des champagnes ?  5 

Non ,  monsieur .  

Taut les connaitre ,  5 said Johnson .  Fraulein ,  5 he called the 
waitress .  We will drink champagne .  5 

Which champagne would you prefer ,  sir ?  5 

The best ,  5 said Johnson .  Laquelle est le best ?  5 he asked 
the porters .  

c Le meilleur ?  asked the porter who had spoken first .  

By all means .  5 

The porter took out a pair of gold - rimmed glasses from his 
coat pocket and looked over the list .  He ran his finger down 
the four typewritten names and prices .  

Sportsman /  he said .  Sportsman is the best .  5 

You agree ,  gentlemen ?  5 Johnson asked the other porters .  
The one porter nodded .  The other said in French ,  I don 5 t 
know them personally but Ive often heard speak of Sports -  
man .  Its good .  5 

A bottle of Sportsman ,  5 Johnson said to the waitress .  He 
looked at the price on the wine card: eleven francs Swiss .  
Make it two Sportsmen .  Do you mind if I sit here with you ?  5 
he asked the porter who had suggested Sportsman .  

Sit down .  Put yourself here ,  please .  5 The porter smiled at 
him .  He was folding his spectacles and putting them away 
in their case .  Is it the gentlemans birthday ?  5 

No ,  5 said Johnson .  Its not a fete .  My wife has decided 
to divorce me .  5 

So /  said the porter .  I hope not .  5 The other porter shook 
his head .  The third porter seemed a little deaf .  



4 oo HOMAGE TO SWITZERLAND 

It is doubtless a common experience ,  said Johnson ,  like 
the first visit to the dentist or the first time a girl is unwell ,  
but I have been upset .  5 

It is understandable ,  said the oldest porter .  I under -  
stand it .  

None of you gentlemen is divorced ?  Johnson asked .  He 
had stopped clowning with the language and was speaking 
good French now and had been for some time .  

No /  said the porter who had ordered Sportsman .  They 
dont divorce much here .  There are gentlemen who are 
divorced but not many .  

With us ,  said Johnson ,  its different .  Practically everyone 
is divorced .  

Thats true ,  the porter confirmed .  Ive read it in the 
paper .  

I myself am somewhat in retard ,  Johnson went on .  This 
is the first time I have been divorced .  I am thirty - five .  

Mais vous etes encore jeune ,  said the porter .  He ex -  
plained to the two others .  Monsieur na que trente - cinq 
ans .  The other porters nodded .  Hes very young ,  said one .  

And it is really the first time youve been divorced ?  asked 
the porter .  

Absolutely ,  said Johnson .  Please open the wine ,  made -  
moiselle .  

And it is very expensive ?  

Ten thousand francs .  

Swiss money ?  

No ,  French money .  

Oh ,  yes .  Two thousand francs Swiss .  All the same its not 
cheap .  

No .  

And why does one do it ?  

One is asked to .  

But why do they ask that ?  

To marry someone else .  

But its idiotic .  



HOMAGE TO SWITZERLAND 401 

I agree with you /  said Johnson .  The waitress filled the 
four glasses .  They all raised them .  

Prosit /  said Johnson .  

A votre sante ,  monsieur /  said the porter .  The other two 
porters said Salut .  The champagne tasted like sweet pink 
cider .  

Is it a system always to respond in a different language in 
Switzerland ?  Johnson asked .  

No ,  said the porter .  French is more cultivated .  Besides ,  
this is la Suisse Romande .  

But you speak German ?  

Yes .  Where I come from they speak German .  

I see /  said Johnson ,  and you say you have never been 
divorced ?  

No .  l{ would be too expensive .  Besides ,  I have never 
married .  

Ah /  said Johnson .  And these other gentlemen ?  

They are married .  

You like being married ?  Johnson asked one of the porters .  

What ?  5 

You like the married state ?  

Oui .  Cest normale .  

Exactly /  said Johnson .  Et vous ,  monsieur ?  

Ca va /  said the other porter .  

Pour moi /  said Johnson ,   ? a ne va pas .  

Monsieur is going to divorce /  the first porter explained .  

Oh /  said the second porter .  

Ah ha /  the third porter said .  

Well /  said Johnson ,  the subject seems to be exhausted .  
Youre not interested in my troubles /  he addressed the first 
porter .  

But ,  yes /  said the porter .  

Well ,  lets talk about something else .  

As you wish .  

What can we talk about ?  

You do the sport ?  



402 HOMAGE TO SWITZERLAND 

No ,  said Johnson .  My wife does ,  though .  

What do you do for amusement ?  

I am a writer .  

Does that make much money ?  

*No .  But later on when you get known it droes .  

It is interesting ?  

No ,  said Johnson ,  it is not interesting .  I am sorry ,  gentle -  
men ,  but I have to leave you .  Will you please drink the 
other bottle ?  

But the train does not come for three - quarters of an hour .  

I know ,  said Johnson .  The waitress came and he paid for 
the wine and his dinner .  

You going out ,  sir ?  she asked .  

Yes ,  said Johnson ,  just for a little walk .  Ill leave my 
bags here .  

He put on his muffler ,  his coat ,  and his hat .  Outside the 
snow was falling heavily .  He looked back through the 
window at the three porters sitting at the table .  The waitress 
was filling their glasses from the last wine of the opened bottle .  
She took the unopened bottle back to the bar .  That makes 
them three francs something apiece ,  Johnson thought .  He 
turned and walked down the platform .  Inside the caft he had 
thought that talking about it would blunt it ;  but it had not 
blunted it ;  it had only made him feel nasty .  

PART III 
THE SON OF A FELLOW MEMBER AT TERRITET 

In the station cafe at Territet it was a little too warm ;  the 
lights were bright and the tables shiny from polishing .  There 
were baskets with pretzels in glazed paper sacks on the tables 
and cardboard pads for beer glasses in order that the moist 
glasses would not make rings on the wood .  The chairs were 
carved but the wooden seats were worn and quite com -  
fortable .  There was a clock on the wall ,  a bar at the far end 



HOMAGE TO SWITZERLAND 403 

of the room ,  and outside the window it was snowing .  There 
was an old man drinking coffee at a table under the clock 
and reading the evening paper .  A porter came in and said 
the Simplon - Orient Express was an hour late at Saint -  
Maurice .  The waitress came over to Mr .  Harriss table .  
Mr .  Harris had just finished dinner .  

The Express is an hour late ,  sir .  Can I bring you some 
coffee ?  

If you like .  5 

Please ?  asked the waitress .  

All right /  said Mr .  Harris .  

Thank you ,  sir ,  said the waitress .  

She brought the coffee from the kitchen and Mr .  Harris 
put sugar in it ,  crunched the lumps with his spoon ,  and 
looked out the window at the snow falling in the light fpom 
the station platform .  

Do you speak other languages besides English ?  he asked 
the waitress .  

Oh ,  yes ,  sir .  I speak German and French and the dialects .  

Which do you like best ?  

They are all very much the same ,  sir .  I cant say I like 
one better than another .  

Would you like a drink of something or a coffee ?  

Oh ,  no ,  sir ,  it is not permitted to drink in the cafe with the 
clients .  

You wouldnt take a cigar ?  

Oh ,  no ,  sir ,  she laughed .  I dont smoke ,  sir .  

Neither do I ,  said Harris .  I dont agree with David 
Belasco .  

Please ?  

Belasco .  David Belasco .  You can always tell him because 
he has his collar on backwards .  But I dont agree with him .  
Then ,  too ,  hes dead now .  

Will you excuse me ,  sir ?  asked the waitress .  

Absolutely ,  said Harris .  He sat forward in the chair and 
looked out of the window .  Across the room the old man 



404 HOMAGE TO SWITZERLAND 

had folded his paper .  He looked at Mr .  Harris and then 
picked up his coffee cup and saucer and walked to Harriss 
table .  

I beg your pardon if I intrude /  he said in English ,  but it 
has just occurred to me that you might be a ,  member of the 
National Geographic Society .  

Please sit down /  Harris said .  The gentleman sat down .  

Wont you have another coffee or a liqueur ?  

Thank you /  said the gentleman .  

Wont you have a kirsch with me ?  

Perhaps .  But you must have it with me .  

No ,  I insist .  3 Harris called the waitress .  The old gentle -  
man took out from an inside pocket of his coat a leather 
pocket - book .  He took off a wide rubber band and drew out 
several papers ,  selected one ,  and handed it to Harris .  

That is my certificate of membership ,  he said .  Do you 
know Frederick J .  Roussel in America ?  

Im afraid I dont .  

I believe he is very prominent .  

Where does he come from ?  Do you know what part of the 
States ?  

From Washington ,  of course .  Isnt that the headquarters 
of the Society ?  

I believe it is .  

You believe it is .  Arent you sure ?  

Ive been away a long time ,  Harris said .  

Youre not a member ,  then ?  

No .  But my father is .  Hes been a member for a great 
many years .  3 

Then he would know Frederick J .  Roussel .  He is one of 
the officers of the Society .  You will observe that it is by Mr .  
Roussel that I was nominated for membership .  

Im awfully glad .  3 

I am sorry you are not a member .  But you could obtain 
nomination through your father ?  

I think so ,  said Harris .  C I must when I go back .  3 



HOMAGE TO SWITZERLAND 405 

I would advise you to ,  said the gentleman .  You see the 
magazine ,  of course ?  

Absolutely .  

Have you seen the number with the coloured plates of the 
North American fauna ?  

Yes .  I have it in Paris .  

And the number containing the panorama of the vol -  
canoes of Alaska ?  

That was a wonder .  

I enjoyed very much ,  too ,  the wild animal photographs 
of George Shiras three .  

They were damned fine .  

I beg your pardon ?  

They were excellent .  That fellow Shiras  

You call him that fellow ?  

Were old friends ,  said Harris .  

*I see .  You know George Shiras three .  He must be very 
interesting ,  

He is .  Hes about the most interesting man I know .  

And do you know George Shiras two ?  Is he interesting 
too ?  

Oh ,  hes not so interesting .  

I should imagine he would be very interesting .  

 " You know ,  a funny thing .  Hes not so interesting .  Ive 
often wondered why .  

Hm /  said the gentleman .  I should have thought anyone 
in that family would be interesting .  

Do you remember the panorama of the Sahara Desert ?  
Harris asked .  

The Sahara Desert ?  That was nearly fifteen years ago .  

Thats right .  That was one of my fathers favourites .  

*He doesnt prefer the newer numbers ?  

He probably does .  But he was very fond of the Sahara 
panorama .  

It was excellent .  But to me its artistic value far exceeded 
its scientific interest .  



406 HOMAGE TO SWITZERLAND 

I dont know /  said Harris .  The wind blowing all that 
sand and that Arab with his camel kneeling toward Mecca /  

As I recall ,  the Arab was standing holding the camel .  

Youre quite right ,  said Harris .  I was thinking of 
Colonel Lawrences book .  

Lawrences book deals with Arabia ,  I believe .  

Absolutely ,  said Harris .  It was the Arab reminded me 
of it .  

He must be a very interesting young man .  

I believe he is .  

Do you know what he is doing now ?  

Hes in the Royal Air Force .  

And why does he do that ?  

He likes it .  

J ) o you know if he belongs to the National Geographic 
Society ?  

I wonder if he does .  

He would make a very good member .  He is the sort of 
person they want as a member .  I would be very happy to 
nominate him if you think they would like to have him .  5 

I think they would .  

I have nominated a scientist from Vevey and a colleague 
of mine from Lauzanne and they were both elected .  I believe 
they would be very pleased if I nominated Colonel Lawrence .  5 

Its a splendid idea ,  said Harris .  Do you come here to 
the cafe often ?  

I come here for coffee after dinner .  5 

Are you in the University ?  5 

I am not active any longer .  5 

Tm just waiting for the train ,  said Harris .  Tm going up 
to Paris and sail from Havre for the States .  5 

I have never been to America .  But I would like to go very 
much .  Perhaps I shall attend a meeting of the society some 
time .  I would be very happy to meet your father .  5 

Tm sure he would have liked to meet you but he died last 
year .  Shot himself ,  oddly enough .  5 



HOMAGE TO SWITZERLAND 407 

C I am very truly sorry .  I am sure his loss was a blow to 
science as well as to his family .  5 

Science took it awfully well .  

This is my card /  Harris said .  His initials were E .  J .  
instead of E .  D .  I know he would have liked to know you .  

It would hAve been a great pleasure .  The gentleman 
took out a card from the pocket - book and gave it to Harris .  
It read : 



DR .  SIGISMUND WYER ,  PH . D .  

Member of the National Geographic 
Society ,  Washington ,  DC .  ,  USA 



I will keep it very carefully /  Harris said .  



A DAYS WAIT 

HE came into the room to shut the windows while we were 
still in bed and I saw he looked ill .  He was shivering ,  his face 
was white ,  and he walked slowly as though it ached to move .  

Whats the matter ,  Schatz ?  

Ive got a headache .  

You better go back to bed .  

No .  Im all right .  

You go to bed .  Ill see you when Im dressed .  

But when I came downstairs he was dressed ,  sitting by the 
fire ,  looking a very sick and miserable boy of nine years .  
When I put my hand on his forehead I knew he had a fever .  

You go up to bed ,  I said ,  youre sick .  

Im all right ,  he said .  

When the doctor came he took the boys temperature .  

What is it ?  I asked him .  

One hundred and two .  

Downstairs ,  the doctor left three different medicines in 
different coloured capsules with instructions for giving them .  
One was to bring down the fever ,  another a purgative ,  the 
third to overcome an acid condition .  The germs of influenza 
can only exist in an acid condition ,  he explained .  He seemed 
to know all about influenza and said there was nothing to 
worry about if the fever did not go above one hundred and 
four degrees .  This was a light epidemic of flu and there was 
no danger if you avoided pneumonia .  

Back in the room I wrote the boys temperature down and 
made a note of the time to give the various capsules .  

Do you want me to read to you ?  

All right .  If you want to ,  said the boy .  His face was very 
white and there were dark areas under his eyes .  He lay still 
in the bed and seemed very detached from what was 
 ; going on .  

408 



A DAYS WAIT 409 

I read aloud from Howard Pyles Book of Pirates \  but I 
could see he was not following what I was reading .  

How do you feel ,  Schatz ?  I asked him .  

Just the same ,  so far ,  5 he said .  

I sat at the foot of the bed and read to myself while I 
waited for it to be time to give another capsule .  It would 
have been natural for him to go to sleep ,  but when I looked 
up he was looking at the foot of the bed ,  looking very 
strangely .  

Why dont you try to go to sleep ?  Ill wake you up for the 
medicine .  

Td rather stay awake .  

After a while he said to me ,  You dont have to stay in here 
with me Papa ,  if it bothers you .  

It doesnt bother me .  

No ,  I mean you dont have to stay if its going to bother 
you .  

I thought perhaps he was a little lightheaded and after 
giving him the prescribed capsules at eleven oclock I went 
out for a while .  

It was a bright ,  cold day ,  the ground covered with a sleet 
that had frozen so that it seemed as if all the bare trees ,  the 
bushes ,  the cut brush and all the grass and the bare ground 
had been varnished with ice .  I took the young Irish setter 
for a little walk up the road and along a frozen creek ,  but it 
was difficult to stand or walk on the glassy surface and the 
red dog slipped and slithered and I fell twice ,  hard ,  once 
droppng my gun and having it slide away over the ice .  

We flushed a covey of quail under a high clay bank with 
overhanging brush and I killed two as they went out of sight 
over the top of the bank .  Some of the covey lit in trees ,  but 
most of them scattered into brush piles and it was necessary 
to jump on the ice - coated mounds of brush several times 
before they would flush .  Coming out while you were poised 
unsteadily on the icy ,  springy brush they made difficult 
shooting and I killed two ,  missed five ,  and started back 



4 io ADAYSWAIT 

pleased to have found a covey close to the house and happy 
there were so many left to find on another day .  

At the house they said the boy had refused to let anyone 
come into the room .  

You cant come in ,  he said .  You mustnt get what I 
have .  

I went up to him and found him in exactly the position I 
had left him ,  white - faced ,  but with the tops of his cheeks 
flushed by the fever ,  staring still ,  as he had stared ,  at the foot 
of the bed .  

I took his temperature .  

What is it ?  

Something like a hundred ,  I said .  It was one hundred 
and two and four - tenths .  

If was a hundred arid two ,  he said .  

Who said so ?  

The doctor .  5 

Your temperature is all right ,  I said .  Its nothing to 
worry about .  

I dont worry ,  he said ,  but I cant keep from thinking .  

Dont think ,  I said .  Just take it easy .  

Tm taking it easy ,  he said ,  and looked straight ahead .  
He was evidently holding tight on to himself about some -  
thing .  

Take this with water /  

Do you think it will do any good ?  

Of course it will .  

I sat down and opened the Pirate book and commenced to 
read ,  but I could see he was not following ,  so I stopped .  

About what time do you think Im going to die ?  he asked .  

What ?  5 

About how long will it be before I die ?  

*You arent going to die .  Whats the matter with you ?  5 

Oh ,  yes ,  I am .  I heard him say a hundred and two .  5 

People dont die with a fever of one hundred and two .  
Thats a silly way to talk .  5 



A DAYS WAIT 411 

I know they do .  At school in France the boys told me you 
cant live with forty - four degrees .  Ive got a hundred and 
two .  

He had been waiting to die all day ,  ever since nine oclock 
in the morning .  

You poor Schatz ,  I said .  Toor old Schatz .  Its like miles 
and kilometres .  You arent going to die .  Thats a different 
thermometer .  On that thermometer thirty - seven is normal .  
On this kind its ninety - eight .  

Absolutely ,  I said .  Its like miles and kilometres .  You 
know ,  like how many kilometres we make when we do 
seventy miles in the car ?  

Oh /  he said .  

But his gaze at the foot of the bed relaxed slowly .  The hold 
over himself relaxed too ,  finally ,  and the next day it was v^ry 
slack and he cried very easily at little things that were of no 
importance .  



A NATURAL HISTORY OF 
THE DEAD 

IT has always seemed to me that the war has been omitted 
as a field for the observations of the naturalist .  We have 
charming and sound accounts of the flora and fauna of Pata -  
gonia by the late W .  H .  Hudson ,  the Reverend Gilbert White 
has written most interestingly of the Hoopoe on its occasional 
and not at all common visits to Selborne ,  and Bishop Stanley 
has given us a valuable ,  although popular ,  Familiar History of 
Birds .  Can we not hope to furnish the reader with a few 
rational and interesting facts about the dead ?  I hope so .  

When that persevering traveller ,  Mungo Park ,  was at one 
period of his course fainting in the vast wilderness of an 
African desert ,  naked and alone ,  considering his days as 
numbered and nothing appearing to remain for him to do 
but to lie down and die ,  a small moss - flower of extraordinary 
beauty caught his eye .  Though the whole plant ,  says he ,  
was no larger than one of my fingers ,  I could not contemplate 
the delicate confirmation of its roots ,  leaves and capsules 
without admiration .  Can that Being who planted ,  watered 
and brought to perfection ,  in this obscure part of the world ,  a 
thing which appears of so small importance ,  look with un -  
concern upon the situation and suffering of creatures formed 
after his own image ?  Surely not .  Reflections like these 
would not allow me to despair ;  I started up and ,  disregarding 
both hunger and fatigue ,  travelled forward ,  assured that 
relief was at hand ;  and I was not disappointed .  

With a disposition to wonder and adore in like manner ,  as 
Bishop Stanley says ,  can any branch of Natural History be 
studied without increasing that faith ,  love and hope which 
we also ,  every one of us ,  need in our journey through the 
wilderness of life ?  Let us therefore see what inspiration we 
may derive from the dead .  



A NATURAL HISTORY OF THE DEAD 413 

In war the dead are usually the male of the human species ,  
although this does not hold true with animals ,  and I have 
frequently seen dead mares among the horses .  An interesting 
aspect of war ,  too ,  is that it is only there that the naturalist 
has an opportunity to observe the dead of mules .  In twenty 
years of observation in civil life I had never seen a dead mule 
and had begun to entertain doubts as to whether these 
animals were really mortal .  On rare occasions I had seen 
what I took to be dead mules ,  but on close approach these 
always proved to be living creatures who seemed to be dead 
through their quality of complete repose .  But in war these 
animals succumb in much the same manner as the more 
common and less hardy horse .  

Most of the mules that I saw dead were along mountain 
roads or lying at the foot of steep declivities whence they . had 
been pushed to rid the road of their encumbrance .  They 
seemed a fitting enough sight in the mountains where one was 
accustomed to their presence and looked less incongruous 
there than they did later ,  at Smyrna ,  where the Greeks broke 
the legs of all their baggage animals and pushed them off the 
quay into the shallow water to drown .  The numbers of 
broken - legged mules and horses drowning in the shallow 
water called for a Goya to depict them .  Although ,  speaking 
literally ,  one can hardly say that they called for a Goya 
since there has only been one Goya ,  long dead ,  and it is 
extremely doubtful if these animals ,  were they able to call ,  
would call for pictorial representation of their plight but ,  
more likely ,  would ,  if they were articulate ,  call for someone 
to alleviate their condition .  

Regarding the sex of the dead it is a fact that one becomes 
so accustomed to the sight of all the dead being men that the 
sight of a dead woman is quite shocking .  I first saw inversion 
of the usual sex of the dead after the explosion of a munition 
factory which had been situated in the countryside near 
Milan ,  Italy .  We drove to the scene of the disaster in trucks 
along poplar - shaded roads ,  bordered with ditches containing* 



414 A NATURAL HISTORY OF THE DEAD 

much minute animal life ,  which I could not clearly observe 
because of the great clouds of dust raised by the trucks .  
Arriving where the munition plant had been ,  some of us 
were put to patrolling about those large stocks of munitions 
which for some reason had not exploded ,  while others were 
put at extinguishing a fire which had gotten into the grass of 
an adjacent field ;  which task being concluded ,  we were 
ordered to search the immediate vicinity and surrounding 
fields for bodies .  We found and carried to an improvised 
mortuary a good number of these and ,  I must admit ,  frankly ,  
the shock it was to find that these dead were women rather 
than men .  In those days women had not yet commenced to 
wear their hair cut short ,  as they did later for several years 
in Europe and America ,  #nd the most disturbing thing ,  per -  
haps because it was the most unaccustomed ,  was the presence ,  
and ,  even more disturbing ,  the occasional absence of this 
long hair .  I remember that after we had searched quite 
thoroughly for the complete dead we collected fragments .  
Many of these were detached from a heavy ,  barbed -  wire 
fence which had surrounded the position of the factory and 
from the still existent portions of which we picked many of 
these detached bits which illustrated only too well the 
tremendous energy of high explosive .  Many fragments we 
found a considerable distance away in the fields ,  they being 
carried farther by their own weight .  

On our return to Milan I recall one or two of us discussing 
the occurrence and agreeing that the quality of unreality and 
the fact that there were no wounded did much to rob the 
disaster of a horror which might have been much greater .  
Also the fact that it had been so immediate and that the dead 
were in consequence still as little unpleasant as possible to 
carry and deal with made it quite removed from the usual 
battlefield experience .  The pleasant ,  though dusty ,  ride 
through the beautiful Lombard countryside also was a com -  
pensation for the unpleasantness of the duty and on our 
return ,  while we exchanged impressions ,  we all agreed that 



A NATURAL HISTORY OF THE DEAD 415 

it was indeed fortunate that the fire which broke out just 
before we arrived had been brought under control as rapidly 
as it had and before it had attained any of the seemingly 
huge stocks of unexploded munitions .  We agreed too that 
the picking up of the fragments had been an extraordinary 
business ;  it being amazing that the human body should be 
blown into pieces which exploded along no anatomical lines ,  
but rather divided as capriciously as the fragmentation in 
the burst of a high explosive shell .  

A naturalist ,  to obtain accuracy of observation ,  may con -  
fine himself in his observations to one limited period and I 
will take first that following the Austrian offensive of June ,  
1918 ,  in Italy as one in which the dead were present in their 
greatest numbers ,  a withdrawal having been forced and an 
advance later made to recover the ground lost so that the 
positions after the battle were the same as before except for 
the presence of the dead .  Until the dead are buried they 
change somewhat in appearance each day .  The colour 
change in Caucasian races is from white to yellow ,  to yellow -  
green ,  to black .  If left long enough in the heat the flesh 
comes to resemble coal - tar ,  especially where it has been 
broken or torn ,  and it has quite a visible tar - like iridescence .  
The dead grow larger each day until sometimes they be -  
come quite too big for their uniforms ,  filling these until they 
seem blown tight enough to burst .  The individual members 
may increase in girth to an unbelievable extent and faces 
fill as taut and globular as balloons .  The surprising thing ,  
next to their progressive corpulence ,  is the amount of paper 
that is scattered about the dead .  Their ultimate position ,  
before there is any question of burial ,  depends on the location 
of the pockets in the uniform .  In the Austrian army these 
pockets were in the back of the breeches and the dead ,  after a 
short time ,  all consequently lay on their faces ,  the two hip 
pockets pulled out and ,  scattered around them in the grass ,  
all those papers their pockets contained .  The heat ,  the flies ,  
the indicative positions of the bodies in the grass ,  and the 



416 A NATURAL HISTORY OF THE DE A E 

amount of paper scattered are the impressions one retains .  
The smell of a battlefield in hot weather one cannot recall .  
You can remember that there was such a smell ,  but nothing 
ever happens to you to bring it back .  It is unlike the smell of 
a regiment ,  which may come to you suddenly while riding in 
the street car and you will look across and see the man who 
has brought it to you .  But the other thing is gone as com -  
pletely as when you have been in love ;  you remember things 
that happened ,  but the sensation cannot be recalled .  

One wonders what that persevering traveller ,  Mungo Park ,  
would have seen on a battlefield in hot weather to restore his 
confidence .  There were always poppies in the wheat in the 
end of June and in July ,  and the mulberry trees were in full 
leaf and one could see the heat waves rise from the barrels of 
thecguns where the sun struck them through the screens of 
leaves ;  the earth was turned a bright yellow at the edge of 
holes where mustard -  gas shells had been and the average 
broken house is finer to see than one that has been shelled ,  
but few travellers would take a good fuJl breath of that early 
summer air and have any such thoughts as Mungo Park about 
those formed in His own image .  

The first thing that you found about the dead was that ,  
hit badly enough ,  they died like animals .  Some quickly 
from a little wound you would not think would kill a rabbit .  
They died from little wounds as rabbits die sometimes from 
three or four small grains of shot that hardly seem to break 
the skin .  Others would die like cats ;  a skull broken in and 
iron in the brain ,  they lie alive two days like cats that crawl 
into the coal bin with a bullet in the brain and will not die 
until you cut their heads off .  Maybe cats do not die then ,  
they say they have nine lives .  I do not know ,  but most men 
die like animals ,  not men .  Id never seen a natural death ,  
so called ,  and so I blamed it on the war and like the persever -  
ing traveller ,  Mungo Park ,  knew that there was something 
else ,  that always absent something else ,  and then I saw one .  

The only natural death Ive ever seen ,  outside of loss of 



4 .  NATURAL HISTORY OF THE DEAD 417 

blood ,  which isnt bad ,  was death from Spanish influenza .  
In this you drown in mucus ,  choking ,  and how you know the 
patients dead is: at the end he turns to be a little child again ,  
though with his manly force ,  and fills the sheets as full as any 
diaper with one vast ,  final ,  yellow cataract that flows and 
dribbles on after hes gone .  So now I want to see the death 
of any self - called Humanist 1 because a persevering traveller 
like Mungo Park or me lives on and maybe yet will live to see 
the actual death of members of this literary sect and watch 
the noble exits that they make .  In my musings as a naturalist 
it has occurred to me that while decorum is an excellent 
thing some must be indecorous if the race is to be carried on 
since the position prescribed for procreation is indecorous ,  
highly indecorous ,  and it occurred to me that perhaps that 
is what these people are ,  or were: the children of decoreus 
cohabitation .  But regardless of how they started I hope to see 
the finish of a few ,  and speculate how worms will try that 
long preserved sterility ;  with their quaint pamphlets gone to 
bust and into footnotes all their lust .  

While it is ,  perhaps ,  legitimate to deal with these self -  
designated citizens in a natural history of the dead ,  even 
though the designation may mean nothing by the time this 
work is published ,  yet it is unfair to the other dead ,  who were 
not dead in their youth of choice ,  who owned no magazines ,  
many of whom had doubtless never even read a review ,  that 
one has seen in the hot weather with a half - pint of maggots 
working where their mouths have been .  It was not always 
hot weather for the dead ,  much of the time it was the rain 
that washed them clean when they lay in it and made the 
earth soft when they were buried in it and sometimes then 
kept on until the earth was mud and washed them out and 
you had to bury them again .  Or in the winter in the moun -  
tains you had to put them in the snow and when the snow 

1 The Readers indulgence is requested for this mention of an extinct 
phenomenon .  The reference ,  like all references to fashions ,  dates the story ,  
but it is retained because of its mild historical interest and because its 
omission would spoil the rhythm .  

DD 



418 A NATURAL HISTORY OF THE DEAD ,  

melted in the spring someone else had to bury them .  They 
had beautiful burying grounds in the mountains ,  war in the 
mountains is the most beautiful of all war ,  and in one of them ,  
at a place called Pocol ,  they buried a general who was shot 
through the head by a sniper .  This is where those writers 
are mistaken who write books called Generals Die in Bed ,  
because this general died in a trench dug in snow ,  high in 
the mountains ,  wearing an Alpini hat with an eagle feather 
in it and a hole in front you couldnt put your little finger in 
and a hole in back you could put your fist in ,  if it were a 
small fist and you wanted to put it there ,  and much blood in 
the snow .  He was a damned fine general ,  and so was General 
von Behr who commanded the Bavarian Alpenkorps troops 
at the battle of Caporetto and was killed in his staff car by the 
Italian rearguard as he drove into Udine ahead of his troops ,  
and the titles of all such books should be Generals Usually Die 
in Bed ,  if we are to have any sort of accuracy in such things .  
In the mountains ,  too ,  sometimes ,  the snow fell on the dead 
outside the dressing station on the side that was protected by 
the mountain from any shelling .  They carried them into a 
cave that had been dug into the mountainside before the 
earth froze .  It was in this cave that a man whose head was 
broken as a flower - pot may be broken ,  although it was all 
held together by membranes and a skilfully applied bandage 
now soaked and hardened ,  with the structure of his brain 
disturbed by a piece of broken steel in it ,  lay a day ,  a night ,  
and a day .  The stretcher - bearers asked the doctor to go in 
and have a look at him .  They saw him each time they made 
a trip and even when they did not look at him they heard 
him breathing .  The doctors eyes were red and the lids 
swollen ,  almost shut from tear gas .  He looked at the man 
twice ;  once in daylight ,  once with a flashlight .  That too 
would have made a good etching for Goya ,  the visit with the 
flashlight ,  I mean .  After looking at him the second time the 
doctor believed the stretcher - bearers when they said the 
soldier was still alive .  



A NATURAL HISTORY OF THE DEAD 419 

What do you want me to do about it ?  5 he asked .  

There was nothing they wanted done .  But after a while 
they asked permission to carry him out and lay him with the 
badly wounded .  

No .  No .  No! said the doctor ,  who was busy .  Whats 
the matter ?  Are you afraid of him ?  

c We dont like to hear him in there with the dead .  

Dont listen to him .  If you take him out of there you will 
have to carry him right back in .  

c We wouldnt mind that ,  Captain Doctor .  5 

No ,  said the doctor .  No .  Didnt you hear me say no ?  

Why dont you give him an overdose of morphine ?  asked 
an artillery officer who was waiting to have a wound in his 
arm dressed .  

Do you think that is the only use I have for morphine ?  
Would you like me to have to operate without morphine ?  
You have a pistol ,  go out and shoot him yourself .  

Hes been shot already ,  3 said the officer .  If some of you 
doctors were shot youd be different .  

Thank you very much /  said the doctor waving a forceps 
in the air .  Thank you a thousand times .  What about these 
eyes ?  He pointed the forceps at them .  How would you like 
these ?  

Tear gas .  We call it lucky if its tear gas .  

Because you leave the line ,  said the doctor .  Because you 
came running here with your tear gas to be evacuated .  You 
rub onions in your eyes .  3 

You are beside yourself .  I do not notice your insults .  You 
are crazy .  

The stretcher - bearers came in .  

Captain Doctor /  one of them said .  

Get out of here! said the doctor .  

They went out .  

I will shoot the poor fellow ,  the artillery officer said .  I 
am a humane man .  I will not let him suffer .  3 

Shoot him then /  said the doctor .  Shoot him .  Assume 



420 A NATURAL HISTORY OF THE DEAD 

the responsibility .  I will make a report .  Wounded shot by 
lieutenant of artillery in first curing post .  Shoot him .  Go 
ahead ,  shoot him .  

You are not a human being .  

My business is to care for the wounded ,  not to kill them .  
That is for gentlemen of the artillery .  

Why dont you care for him then ?  

I have done so ,  I have done all that can be done .  

Why dont you send him down on the cable railway ?  

Who are you to ask me questions ?  Are you my superior 
officer ?  Are you in command of this dressing - post ?  Do me 
the courtesy to answer .  

The lieutenant of artillery said nothing .  The others in the 
room were all soldiers and there were no other officers 
present .  

Answer me ,  said the doctor holding a needle up in his 
forceps .  Give me a response .  

*F yourself ,  said the artillery officer .  

So ,  said the doctor .  So ,  you said that .  All right .  All 
right .  We shall see .  

The lieutenant of artillery stood up and walked toward 
him .  

F yourself ,  he said .  F yourself .  F your 

mother .  F your sister  .   .   .  

The doctor tossed the saucer full of iodine in his face .  As he 
came toward him ,  blinded ,  the lieutenant fumbled for his 
pistol .  The doctor skipped quickly behind him ,  tripped him 
and ,  as he fell to the floor ,  kicked him several times and 
picked up the pistol in his rubber gloves .  The lieutenant sat 
on the floor holding his good hand to his eyes .  

Ill kill you! he said .  Til kill you as soon as I can see .  

I am the boss ,  said the doctor .  All is forgiven since you 
know I am the boss .  You cannot kill me because I have your 
pistol .  Sergeant! Adjutant! Adjutant! 

The adjutant is at the cable railway ,  said the sergeant .  

Wipe out this officers eyes with alcohol and water .  He has 



A -  NATURAL HISTORY OF THE DEAD 421 

got iodine in them .  Bring me the basin to wash my hands .  
I will take this officer next .  

You wont touch me .  

Hold him tight .  He is a little delirious .  

One of the stretcher - bearers came in .  

Captain Doctor .  

What do you want ?  

The man in the dead - house  

Get out of here .  

Is dead ,  Captain Doctor .  I thought you would be glad to 
know .  

See ,  my poor lieutenant ?  We dispute about nothing .  In 
time of war we dispute about nothing ,  

T you ,  said the lieutenant of artillery .  He still could 

not see .  Youve blinded me .  

It is nothing ,  said the doctor .  Your eyes will be all 
right .  It is nothing .  A dispute about nothing .  

Ayee! Ayee! Ayee! suddenly screamed the lieutenant .  
You have blinded me! You have blinded me! 

Hold him tight ,  5 said the doctor .  He is in much pain .  
Hold him very tight .  



WINE OF WYOMING 

IT was a hot afternoon in Wyoming ;  the mountains were a 
long way away and you could see snow on their tops ,  but they 
made no shadow ,  and in the valley the grain - fields were 
yellow ,  the road was dusty with cars passing ,  and all the 
small wooden houses at the edge of town were baking in the 
sun .  There was a tree made shade over Fontans back porch 
and I sat there at a table and Madame Fontan brought up 
cold beer from the cellar .  A motor - car turned off the main 
road and came up the side road ,  and stopped beside the 
house .  Two men got out and came in through the gate .  I 
pift the bottles under the table .  Madame Fontan stood up .  

Wheres Sam ?  one of the men asked at the screen door .  

He aint here .  Hes at the mines .  5 

You got some beer ?  

c No .  Aint got any beer .  Thats a last bottle .  All gone .  

Whats he drinking ?  

Thats a last bottle .  All gone .  

c Go on ,  give us some beer .  You know me .  

c Aint got any beer .  Thats a last bottle .  All gone .  

Come on ,  lets go some place where we can get some real 
beer ,  one of them said ,  and they went out to the car .  One of 
them walked unsteadily .  The motor - car jerked in starting ,  
whirled on the road ,  and went on and away .  

Tut the beer on the table ,  Madame Fontan said .  Whats 
the matter ,  yes ,  all right .  Whats the matter ?  Dont drink off 
the floor .  

I didnt know who they were ,  5 I said .  

Theyre drunk ,  she said .  Thats what makes the trouble .  
Then they go somewhere else and say they got it here .  
Maybe they dont even remember .  She spoke French ,  but it 
was only French occasionally ,  and there were many English 
words and some English constructions .  



WINE OF WYOMING 423 

Wheres Fontan ?  5 

II fait de la vendange .  Oh ,  my God ,  il est crazy pour 
le vin .  

But you like the beer ?  5 

Oui ,  jaim la biere ,  mais Fontan ,  il est crazy pour le vin .  5 

She was a plump old woman with a lovely ruddy com -  
plexion and white hair .  She was very clean and the house 
was very clean and neat .  She came from Lens .  

Where did you eat ?  

At the hotel .  

Mangez ici .  II ne faut pas manger a 1hotel ou au 
restaurant .  Mangez ici! 

I dont want to make you trouble .  And besides they eat 
all right at the hotel .  

I never eat at the hotel .  Maybe they cat all right tfcere .  
Only once in my life I ate at a restaurant in America .  You 
know what they gave me ?  They gave me pork that was raw! 

Really ?  

I dont lie to you .  It was pork that wasnt cooked! Etmon 
fils il est marie avec une americaine ,  et tout le temps il a 
mange les beans en can ?  

How long has he been married ?  5 

Oh ,  my God ,  I dont know .  His wife weighs two hundred 
twenty - five pounds .  She don 5 t work .  She dont cook .  She 
gives him beans en can .  

What does she do ?  

All the time she reads .  Rien que des books .  Tout le temps 
elle stay in the bed and read books .  Already she cant have 
another baby .  Shes too fat .  There ain 5 t any room .  5 

Whats the matter with her ?  

She reads books all the time .  Hes a good boy .  He works 
hard .  He worked in the mines ;  now he works on a ranch .  He 
never worked on a ranch before ,  and the man that owns the 
ranch said to Fontan that he never saw anybody work 
better on that ranch than that boy .  Then he comes home 
and she feeds him nothing .  5 



424 WINE OF WYOMING 

Why doesnt he get a divorce ?  

He aint got no money to get a divorce .  Besides ,  il est crazy 
pour elle .  

Is she beautiful ?  

He thinks so .  When he brought her hom I thought I 
would die .  Hes such a good boy and works hard all the time 
and never run around or make any trouble .  Then he goes 
away to work in the oil - fields and brings home this Indienne 
that weighs right then one hundred eighty - five pounds .  

Elle est Indienne ?  

Shes Indian all right .  My God ,  yes .  All the time she says 
sonofabitsh goddam .  She dont work .  

Where is she now ?  

Au show .  

^heres that ?  

Au show .  Moving pictures .  All she does is read and go to 
the show .  

Have you got any more beer ?  

My God ,  yes .  Sure .  You come and eat with us to - night .  

All right .  What should I bring ?  

Dont bring anything .  Nothing at all .  Maybe Fontan will 
have some of the wine .  

That night I had dinner at Fontans .  We ate in the dining -  
room and there was a clean tablecloth .  We tried the new 
wine .  It was very light and clear and good ,  and still tasted of 
the grapes .  At the table there were Fontan and Madame and 
the little boy ,  Andre .  

What did you do to - day ?  Fontan asked .  He was an old 
man with small mine - tired body ,  a drooping grey mous -  
tache ,  and bright eyes ,  and was from the Centre near 
Saint - Etienne .  

I worked on my book .  5 

Were your books all right ?  asked Madame .  

He means he writes a book like a writer .  Un roman ,  5 
Fontan explained .  



WINE OF WYOMING 425 

Pa ,  can I go to the show ?  Andre asked .  

Sure ,  5 said Fontan .  Andre turned to me .  

How old do you think I am ?  Do you think I look fourteen 
years old ?  He was a thin little boy ,  but his face looked 
sixteen .  t 

Yes .  You look fourteen .  

When I go to the show I crouch down like this and try to 
look small .  His voice was very high and breaking .  If I give 
them a quarter they keep it all ,  but if I give them only fifteen 
cents they let me in all right .  

I only give you fifteen cents ,  then ,  said Fontan .  

No .  Give me the whole quarter .  Ill get it changed on the 
way .  

II faut revenir tout de suite apres le show ,  Madame 
Fontan said .  m 

I come right back .  Andre went out the door .  The night 
was cooling outside .  He left the door open and a cool breeze 
came in .  

Mangez! said Madame Fontan .  You havent eaten any -  
thing .  I had eaten two helpings of chicken and French fried 
potatoes ,  three ears of sweet corn ,  some sliced cucumbers ,  and 
two helpings of salad .  

Perhaps he wants some kek ,  Fontan said .  

I should have gotten some kek for him ,  Madame Fontan 
said .  Mangez du fromage .  Mangez du crimcheez .  Vous 
navez rien mange .  I ought have gotten kek .  Americans 
always eat kek .  

Mais jai rudement bien mange .  

Mangez! Vous navez rien mange .  Eat it all .  We dont 
save anything .  Eat it all up .  

Eat some more salad ,  Fontan said .  

Til get some more beer ,  3 Madame Fontan said .  If you 
work all day in a book - factory you get hungry .  

Elle ne comprend pas que vous etes 6crivain ,  Fontan said .  
He was a delicate old man who used the slang and knew the 
popular songs of his period of military service in the end of 



426 WINE OF WYOMING 

the iSgos .  He writes the books himself /  he explained to 
Madame .  

You write the books yourself ?  5 Madame asked .  

Sometimes .  5 

Oh! she said .  Oh! You write them yourself .  Oh! Well ,  
you get hungry if you do that too .  Mangez! Je vais chercher 
de la bire .  

We heard her walking on the stairs to the cellar .  Fontan 
smiled at me .  He was very tolerant of people who had not his 
experience and worldly knowledge .  

When Andre came home from the show we were still sitting 
in the kitchen and were talking about hunting .  

Labour day we all went to Clear Creek /  Madame said .  
Oh ,  my God ,  you ought to have been there all right .  We all 
w&it in the truck .  Tout le monde est alle dans le truck .  Nous 
sommes partis le dimanche .  Cest le truck de Charley .  

On a mange ,  on a bu du vin ,  de la bi&re ,  et il y avait aussi 
un frangais qui a apporte de P absinthe /  Fontan said .  Un 
fran^ais de la Californie! 

My God ,  nous avons chante .  Theres a farmer comes to 
see whats the matter ,  and we give him something to drink ,  
and he stayed with us awhile .  There was some Italians come 
too ,  and they want to stay with us too .  We sung a song about 
the Italians and they dont understand it .  They didnt know 
we didnt want them ,  but we didnt have nothing to do with 
them ,  and after a while they went away .  

How many fish did you catch ?  

Trs peu .  We went to fish a little while ,  but then we came 
back to sing again .  Nous avons chante ,  vous savez .  

In the night /  said Madame ,  toutes les femmes dort dans 
le truck .  Les hommes a cote du feu .  In the night I hear 
Fontan come to get some more wine ,  and I tell him ,  Fontan ,  
my God ,  leave some for to - morrow .  To - morrow they wont 
have anything to drink ,  and then theyll be sorry .  

Mais nous avons tout bu /  Fontan said .  Et le lendemain 
il ne reste rien .  



WINE OF WYOMING 427 

What did you do ?  

c Nous avons peche serieusement .  

Good trout ,  all right ,  too .  My God ,  yes .  All the same ;  
half - pound one ounce .  

How big ? * 

Half - pound one ounce .  Just right to cat .  All the same 
size ;  half - pound one ounce .  

How do you like America ?  Fontan asked me .  

Its my country ,  you see .  So I like it ,  because its my 
country .  Mais on ne mange pas tres bien .  Dantan ,  oui .  
Mais maintenant ,  no .  

No ,  said Madame .  On ne mange pas bien .  She shook 
her head .  Et aussi ,  il y a trop de Polack .  Quandjetais petite 
ma mere madit ,   " vous mangez comme les Polacks "  ,  Jc nai 
jamais compris ce que cest quun Polack .  Mais maintenant 
en Amerique je comprends .  II y a trop de Polack .  Et ,  my 
God ,  ils sont sales ,  les Polacks .  

It is fine for hunting and fishing ,  I said .  

Oui .  Ca ,  cest le meilleur .  La chassc et la peche ,  Fontan 
said .  Quest - ce que vous avez comme fusil ?  

A twelve - gauge pump .  

II est bon ,  le pump ,  Fontan nodded his head .  

Je vcux aller a la chasse moi - meme ,  Andre said in his high 
little boys voice .  

Tu ne peux pas ,  Fontan said .  He turned to me .  

Us sont des sauvages ,  les boys ,  vous savez .  Ils sont des 
sauvages .  Ils veulent shooter les uns les autres .  

Je veux aller tout seul ,  Andre said ,  very shrill and excited .  

You cant go ,  Madame Fontan said .  You are too young .  

Je veux aller tout seul ,  Andre said shrilly .  Je veux 
shooter les rats deau .  

What are rats deau ?  I asked .  

You dont know them ?  Sure you know them .  What they 
call the muskrats .  

Andre had brought the twenty - two - calibre rifle out from 
the cupboard and was holding it in his hands under the light .  



428 WINE OF WYOMING 

Us sont des sauvages /  Fontan explained .  Us veulent 
shooter les uns les autres .  

Je veux aller tout seul /  Andre shrilled .  He looked des -  
perately along the barrel of the gun .  Je vous shooter les rats 
deau .  Je connais beaucoup de rats deau .  

Give me the gun ,  Fontan said .  He explained again to me .  
Theyre savages .  They would shoot one another .  5 

Andre held tight onto the gun .  

On peut looker .  On ne fait pas de mal .  On peut looker .  

II cst crazy pour le shooting ,  Madame Fontan said .  Mais 
il est trop jeune .  

Andre put the twenty - two - calibre rifle back in the cup -  
board .  

When Im bigger Ill shoot the muskrats and the jack -  
rabfrits too ,  he said in English .  One time I went out with 
papa and he shot a jack - rabbit just a little bit and I shot it 
and hit it .  

Cest vrai ,  5 Fontan nodded .  fi ll a tue un jack .  

But he hit it first /  Andre said .  I want to go all by myself 
and shoot all by myself .  Next year I can do it .  He went over 
in a corner and sat down to read a book .  I had picked it up 
when we came into the kitchen to sit after supper .  It was 
a library book Frank on a Gunboat .  

II aime les books ,  Madame Fontan said .  But its better 
than to run around at night with the older boys and steal 
things .  

Books are all right .  Fontan said .  Monsieur il fait les 
books .  

Yes ,  thats so ,  all right .  But too many books are bad ,  
Madame Fontan said .  Ici ,  cest une maladie ,  les books .  
Cest commes les churches .  Ici il y a trop de churches .  En 
France il y a seulement les catholiques et les protestants et 
tres peu de protestants .  Mais ici rien que de churches .  
Quand j^tais venu ici je disais ,  oh ,  my God ,  what are all the 
churches ?  

Cest vrai /  Fontan said .  II y a trop de churches .  



WINE OF WYOMING 429 

The other day ,  5 Madame Fontan said ,  there was a little 
French girl here with her mother ,  the cousin of Fontan ,  and 
she said to me ,   " En Amerique il ne faut pas etre catholique .  
Its not good to be catholique .  The Americans dont like you 
to be catholique .  Its like the dry law .  "  I said to her ,   " What 
you going to be ?  Heh ?  Its better to be catholique if youre 
catholique .  "  But she said ,   " No ,  it isnt any good to be catho -  
lique in America .  "  But I think its better to be catholique if 
you are .  Ce nest pas bon de changer sa religion .  My God ,  
no .  

You go to the mass here ?  

No ,  I dont go in America ,  only sometimes in a long while .  
Mais je reste catholique .  Its no good to change the religion /  

On dit que Schmidt est catholique ,  Fontan said .  

On dit ,  mais on ne sait jamais ,  Madame Fontan said^ I 
dont think Schmidt is catholique .  Theres not many catho -  
lique in America .  

We are catholique ,  I said .  

Sure ,  but you live in France ,  Madame Fontan said .  Je 
ne crois pas que Schmidt est catholique .  Did he ever live in 
France ?  

Les Polacks sont catholiques ,  Fontan said .  

Thats true ,  Madame Fontan said .  They go to church ,  
then they fight with knives all the way home and kill each 
other all day Sunday .  But theyre not real catholiques .  
Theyre Polack catholiques .  

 " All catholiques are the same ,  Fontan said .  One catho -  
lique is like another .  

I dont believe Schmidt is catholique ,  Madame Fontan 
said .  Thats awful funny if hes catholique .  Moi ,  je ne 
crois pas .  

II est catholique ,  I said .  

Schmidt is catholique ,  Madame Fontan mused .  I 
wouldnt have believed it .  My Gad ,  il est catholique .  

Marie va chercher de la biere ,  Fontan said .  Monsieur a 
soif  -  moi aussi .  



430 WINE OF WYOMING 

Yes ,  all right /  Madame Fontan said from the next room .  
She went downstairs and we heard the stairs creaking .  Andre 
sat reading in the corner .  Fontan and I sat at the table ,  and 
he poured the beer from the last bottle into our two glasses ,  
leaving a little in the bottom .  

Cest un bon pays pour la chasse /  Fontan said .  Jaime 
beaucoup shooter les canards .  

Mais il y a tres bonne chasse aussi en France /  I said .  

Cest vrai /  Fontan said .  Nous avons beaucoup de gibier 
la - bas .  

Madame Fontan came up the stairs with the beer bottles in 
her hands .  II est catholique /  she said .  My God ,  Schmidt 
est catholique .  

You think hell be the President ?  Fontan asked .  

No /  I said .  

The next afternoon I drove out to Fontans ,  through the 
shade of the town ,  then along the dusty road ,  turning up the 
side road and leaving the car beside the fence .  It was another 
hot day .  Madame Fontan came to the back door .  She 
looked like Mrs .  Santa Glaus ,  clean and rosy - faced and 
white - haired ,  and waddling when she walked .  

My God ,  hello /  she said .  Its hot ,  my God .  She went 
back into the house to get some beer .  I sat on the back porch 
and looked through the screen and the leaves of the tree at the 
heat and ,  away off ,  the mountains .  There were furrowed 
brown mountains ,  and above them three peaks and a glacier 
with snow that you could see through the trees .  The snow 
looked very white and pure and unreal .  Madame Fontan 
came out and put down the bottles on the table .  

What you see out there ?  

The snow .  

Cest joli ,  la neige .  

Have a glass ,  too .  5 

All right .  

She sat down on a chair beside me .  Schmidt /  she said .  If 



WINE OF WYOMING 431 

hes the President ,  you think we get the wine and beer all 
right ?  

Sure ,  I said .  Trust Schmidt .  

Already we paid seven hundred fifty - five dollars in fines 
when they arrested Fontan .  Twice the police arrested us and 
once the governments .  All the money we made all the time 
Fontan worked in the mines and I did washing .  We paid it 
all .  They put Fontan in jail .  II na jamais fait de mal a 
personne .  

Hes a good man ,  I said .  Its a crime .  

We dont charge too much money .  The wine one dollar a 
litre .  The beer ten cents a bottle .  We never sell the beer 
before its good .  Lots of places they sell the beer right away 
when they make it ,  and then it gives everybody a headache .  
Whats the matter with that ?  They put Fontan in jail and 
they take seven hundred fifty - five dollars .  * 

Its wicked ,  I said .  Where is Fontan ?  

He stays with the wine .  He has to watch it now to catch 
it just right ,  she smiled .  She did not think about the money 
any more .   Vous savez ,  il cst crazy pour le vin .  Last night he 
brought a little bit home with him ,  what you drank ,  and a 
little bit of the new .  The last new .  It aint ready yet ,  but he 
drank a little bit ,  and this morning he put a little bit in his 
coffee .  Dans son cafe ,  vous savez ?  II est crazy pour le vin! 
II est comme $a ;  Son pays est comme a .  Where I live in the 
north they dont drink any wine .  Everbody drinks beer .  By 
where we lived there was a big brewery right near us .  When 
I was a little girl I didnt like the smell of the hops in the 
carts .  Nor in the fields .  Je naime pas les houblons .  No ,  my 
God ,  not a bit .  The man that owns the brewery said to me 
and my sister to go to the brewery and drink the beer ,  and 
then wed like the hops .  Thats true .  Then we liked them all 
right .  He had them give us the beer .  We liked them all 
right then .  But Fontan ,  il est crazy pour le vin .  One time he 
killed a jack - rabbit and he wanted me to cook it with a sauce 
with wine ,  make a black sauce with wine and butter and 



432 WINE OF WYOMING 

mushrooms and onion and everything in it ,  for the jack .  
My God ,  I make the sauce all right ,  and he eat it all and 
said ,   " La sauce est mcilleure que le jack .  "  Dans son pays 
cest comme $a .  II y a beaucoup de gibier et de vin .  Moi ,  
jaime les pommes de terre ,  le saucisson ,  et la biere .  Cest 
bon ,  la biere .  Cest tres bon pour la sante .  

Its good ,  I said .  It and wine too .  

Youre like Fontan .  But there was a thing here that I 
never saw .  I dont think youve ever seen it either .  There 
were Americans came here and they put whisky in the 
beer .  

No /  I said .  

Oui .  My God ,  yes ,  thats true .  Et aussi une femme qui a 
vomissur la table! 

Comment ?  

Cest vrai .  Elle a vomis sur la table .  Et apres elle a vomis 
dans ses shoes .  And afterward they come back and say they 
want to come again and have another party the next 
Saturday ,  and I say no ,  my God ,  no! When they came I 
locked the door .  

Theyre bad when theyre drunk .  

In the winter - time when the boys go to the dance they 
come in the cars and wait outside and say to Fontan ,   " Hey ,  
Sam ,  sell us a bottle wine ,  "  or they buy the beer ,  and then 
they take the moonshine out of their pockets in a bottle and 
pour it in the beer and drink it .  My God ,  thats the first time 
I ever saw that in my life .  They put whisky in the beer .  My 
God ,  I dont understand tkatl* 

They want to get sick ,  so theyll know theyre drunk .  

One time a fellow comes here came to me and said he 
wanted me to cook them a big supper and they drink one two 
bottles of wine ,  and their girls come too ,  and then they go to 
the dance .  All right ,  I said .  So I made a big supper ,  and 
when they come already they drank a lot .  Then they put 
whisky in the wine .  My God ,  yes .  I said to Fontan ,   " On va 
etremalade! "   " Oui ,  "  il dit .  Then these girls were sick ,  nice 



WINE OF WYOMING 433 

girls ,  too ,  all - right girls .  They were sick right at the table .  
Fontan tried to take them by the arm and show them where 
they could be sick all right in the cabinet ,  but the fellows 
said no ,  they were all right right there at the table .  3 

Fontan had , come in .  When they come again I locked the 
door .   " No ,  "  I said .   " Not for hundred fifty dollars .  "  My 
God ,  no .  

There is a word for such people when they do like that ,  in 
French ,  3 Fontan said .  He stood looking very old and tired 
from the heat .  

What ?  3 

Cochon ,  he said delicately ,  hesitating to use such a strong 
word .  They were like the cochon .  C 3 est un mot tres fort ,  3 
he apologized ,  mais vomir sur la table  -  3 he shook his head 
sadly .  

Cochons ,  3 I said .  Thats what they are cochons .  
Salauds .  3 

The grossness of the words was distasteful to Fontan .  He 
was glad to speak of something else .  

II y a des gens tres gentils ,  trs sensibles ,  qui viennent 
aussi ,  3 he said .  There are officers from the fort .  Very nice 
men .  Good fellas .  Everybody that was ever in France they 
want to come and drink wine .  They like wine all right .  3 

There was one man ,  3 Madame Fontan said ,  and his wife 
never lets him get out .  So he tells her hes tired ,  and goes to 
bed ,  and when she goes to the show he comes straight down 
here ,  sometimes in his pyjamas with just a coat over them .  
 " Maria ,  some beer ,  33 he says ,   " for Gods sake .  33 He sits in his 
pyjamas and drinks the beer ,  and then he goes up to the fort 
and gets back in bed before his wife comes home from the 
show .  3 

GeSt un original ,  3 Fontan said ,  mais vraiment gentil .  
Hes a nice fella .  3 

My God ,  yes ,  nice fella all right ,  3 Madame Fontan said .  
c He 3 s always in bed when his wife gets back from the show /  

I have to go away to - morrow ,  3 I said .  To the Crow 
EE 



434 WINE OF WYOMING 

Reservation .  We go there for the opening of the prairie -  
chicken season .  

Yes ?  You come back here before you go away .  You come 
back here all right ?  

Absolutely .  

Then the wine will be done ,  Fontan said .  Well drink a 
bottle together .  

Three bottles /  Madame Fontan said .  

Til be back ,  I said .  

We count on you /  Fontan said .  

Good night /  I said .  

We got in early in the afternoon from the shooting - trip .  
We had been up that morning since five oclock .  The day 
before we had had good shooting ,  but that morning we had 
not seen a prairie - chicken .  Riding in the open car ,  we were 
very hot and we stopped to eat our lunch out of the sun ,  under 
a tree beside the road .  The sun was high and the patch of 
shade was very small .  We ate sandwiches and crackers with 
sandwich filling on them ,  and were thirsty and tired ,  and glad 
when we finally were out and on the main road back to town .  
We came up behind a prairie - dog town and stopped the car 
to shoot at the prairie - dogs with the pistol .  We shot two ,  but 
then stopped ,  because the bullets that missed glanced off the 
rocks and the dirt ,  and sung off across the fields ,  and beyond 
the fields there were some trees along a watercourse ,  with a 
house ,  and we did not want to get in trouble from stray bullets 
going toward the house .  So we drove on ,  and finally were on 
the road coming down - hill toward the outlying houses of the 
town .  Across the plain we could see the mountains .  They 
were blue that day ,  and the snow on the high mountains 
shone like glass .  The summer was ending ,  but the new snow 
had not yet come to stay on the high mountains ;  there was 
only the old sun - melted snow and the ice ,  and from a long 
way away it shone very brightly .  

We wanted something cool and some shade .  We were sun -  



WINE OF WYOMING 435 

burned and our lips blistered from the sun and alkali dust .  
We turned up the side road to Fontan s ,  stopped the car out -  
side the house ,  and went in .  It was cool inside the dining -  
room .  Madame Fontan was alone .  

Only two bottles beer ,  5 she said .  Its all gone .  The new 
is no good yet .  

I gave her some birds .  Thats good /  she said .  All right .  
Thanks .  Thats good .  She went out to put the birds away 
where it was cooler .  When we finished the beer I stood up .  
We have to go ,  I said .  

You come back to - night all right ?  Fontan hes going to 
have the wine .  

Well come back before we go away .  

You go away ?  

Yes .  We have to leave in the morning .  

Thats too bad you go away .  You come to - night .  Fontan 
will have the wine .  Well make a fete before you go .  

Well come before we go .  

But that afternoon there were telegrams to send ,  the car to 
be gone over a tyre had been cut by a stone and needed 
vulcanizing and ,  without the car ,  I walked into the town ,  
doing things that had to be done before we could go .  When it 
was supper - time I was too tired to go out .  We did not 
want a foreign language .  All we wanted was to go early to 
bed .  

As I lay in bed before I went to sleep ,  with all the things of 
the summer piled around ready to be packed ,  the windows 
open and the air coming in cool from the mountains ,  I 
thought it was a shame not to have gone to Fontans but 
in a little while I was asleep .  The next day we were busy all 
morning packing and ending the summer .  We had lunch 
and were ready to start by two oclock .  

We must go and say good - bye to the Fontans ,  I said .  

Yes ,  we must .  5 

Im afraid they expected us last night .  5 

I suppose we could have gone .  5 



436 WINE OF WYOMING 

I wish wed gone .  

We said good - bye to the man at the desk at the hotel ,  and 
to Larry and our other friends in the town ,  and then drove 
out to Fontans .  Both Monsieur and Madame were there .  
They were glad to see us .  Fontan looked old and tired .  

We thought you would come last night /  Madame Fontan 
said .  Fontan had three bottles of wine .  When you did not 
come he drank it all up .  

We can only stay a minute ,  I said .  We just came to say 
good - bye .  We wanted to come last night .  We intended to 
come ,  but we were too tired after the trip .  

Go get some wine ,  Fontan said .  

There is no wine .  You drank it all up .  

Fontan looked very upset .  

Jll go get some ,  5 he said .  Til just be gone a few minutes .  
I drank it up last night .  We had it for you .  

I knew you were tired .   " My God ,  "  I said ,   " theyre too 
tired all right to come "  ,  Madame Fontan said .  Go get some 
wine ,  Fontan .  

Til take you in the car ,  I said .  

All right /  Fontan said .  That way well go faster .  

We drove down the road in .  the motor - car and turned up a 
side road about a mile away .  

Youll like that wine /  Fontan said .  Its come out well .  
You can drink it for supper to - night .  5 

We stopped in front of a frame house .  Fontan knocked on 
the door .  There was no answer .  We went around to the 
back .  The back door was locked too .  There were empty tin 
cans around the back door .  We looked in the window .  
There was nobody inside .  The kitchen was dirty and sloppy ,  
but all the doors and windows were tight shut .  

That son of a bitch .  Where is she gone out ?  Fontan said .  
He was desperate .  

I know where I can get a key /  he said .  You stay here .  5 
I watched him go down to the next house down the road ,  
knock on the door ,  talk to the woman who came out ,  and 



WINE OF WYOMING 437 

finally come back .  He had a key .  We tried it on the front 
door and the back ,  but it wouldnt work .  

That son of a bitch ,  Fontan said .  Shes gone away some -  
where .  

Looking through the window I could see where the wine 
was stored .  Close to the window you could smell the inside 
of the house .  It smelled sweet and sickish like an Indian 
house .  Suddenly Fontan took a loose board and commenced 
digging at the earth beside the back door .  

I can get in ,  he said .  Son of a bitch ,  I can get in .  

There was a man in the back yard of the next house doing 
something to one of the front wheels of an old Ford .  

You better not /  I said .  That man will see you .  Hes 
watching .  

Fontan straightened up .  Well try the key once more , Mie 
said .  We tried the key and it did not work .  It turned half -  
way in either direction .  

We cant get in ,  I said .  We better go back .  

Til dig up the back ,  Fontan offered .  

No ,  I wouldnt let you take the chance .  

Til do it .  

No ,  I said .  That man would see .  Then they would 
seize it .  

We went out to the car and drove back to Fontans ,  
stopping on the way to leave the key .  Fontan did not say 
anything but swear in English .  He was incoherent and 
crushed .  We went in the house .  

That son of a bitch! he said .  We couldnt get the wine .  
My own wine that I made .  

All the happiness went from Madame Fontans face .  
Fontan sat down in a corner with his head in his hands .  

We must go ,  I said .  It doesnt make any difference about 
the wine .  You drink to us when were gone .  

Where did that crazy go ?  Madame Fontan asked .  

I dont know /  Fontan said .  I dont know where she go .  
Now you go away without any wine .  5 



438 WINE OF WYOMING 

Thats all right /  I said .  

Thats no good ,  5 Madame Fontan said .  She shook her 
head .  

We have to go ,  I said .  Good - bye and good luck .  Thank 
you for the fine times .  

Fontan shook his head .  He was disgraced .  Madame 
Fontan looked sad .  

Dont feel bad about the wine ,  I said .  

He wanted you to drink his wine ,  Madame Fontan said .  
You can come back next year ?  

No .  Maybe the year after /  

You see ?  5 Fontan said to her .  

Good - bye /  I said .  Dont think about the wine .  Drink 
some for us when were gone .  Fontan shook his head .  He 
did iiot smile .  He knew when he was ruined .  

That son of a bitch /  Fontan said to himself .  

Last night he had three bottles /  Madame Fontan said to 
comfort him .  He shook his head .  

Good - bye /  he said .  

Madame Fontan had tears in her eyes .  

Good - bye /  she said .  She felt badly for Fontan .  

Good - bye /  we said .  We all felt very badly .  They stood in 
the doorway and we got in ,  and I started the motor .  We 
waved .  They stood together sadly on the porch .  Fontan 
looked very old ,  and Madame Fontan looked sad .  She waved 
to us and Fontan went in the house .  We turned up the road .  

They felt so badly .  Fontan felt terribly .  

c We ought to have gone last night .  5 

Yes ,  we ought to have .  

We were through the town and out on the smooth road 
beyond  ;  with the stubble of grain - fields on each side and the 
mountains off to the right .  It looked like Spain ,  but it was 
Wyoming .  

I hope they have a lot of good luck .  

They wont /  I said ,  and Schmidt wont be President 
either .  



WINE OF WYOMING 439 .  

The cement road stopped .  The road was gravelled now 
and we left the plain and started up between two foot - hills ;  
the road in a curve and commencing to climb .  The soil of 
the hills was red ,  the sage grew in grey clumps ,  and as the 
road rose we could see across the hills and away across the 
plain of the valley to the mountains .  They were farther 
away now and they looked more like Spain than ever .  The 
road curved and climbed again ,  and ahead there were some 
grouse dusting in the road .  They flew as we came toward 
them ,  their wings beating fast ,  then sailing in long slants ,  and 
lit on the hill - side below .  

They are so big and lovely .  Theyre bigger than European 
partridges .  

Its a fine country for la chasse ,  Fontan says .  5 

And when the chasse is gone ?  

Theyll be dead then .  

The boy wont .  

Theres nothing to prove he wont be ,  I said .  

We ought to have gone last night .  

Oh ,  yes ,  I said .  We ought to have gone .  



THE GAMBLER ,  THE NUN ,  AND 
THE RADIO 

THEY brought them in around midnight and then ,  all night 
long ,  everyone along the corridor heard the Russian .  

Where is he shot ?  5 Mr .  Frazer asked the night nurse .  

In the thigh ,  I think .  

What about the other one ?  5 

Oh ,  hes going to die ,  Im afraid .  

Where is he shot ?  

Twice in the abdomen .  They only found one of the 
bullets .  5 

They were both beet workers ,  a Mexican and a Russian ,  
and they were sitting drinking coffee in an all - night restaur -  
ant when someone came in the door and started shooting 
at the Mexican .  The Russian crawled under a table and was 
hit ,  finally ,  by a stray shot fired at the Mexican as he lay 
on the floor with two bullets in his abdomen .  That was what 
the paper said .  

The Mexican told the police he had no idea who shot him .  
He believed it to be an accident .  

An accident that he fired eight shots at you and hit you 
twice ,  there ?  

Si ,  serior ,  said the Mexican ,  who was named Cayetano 
Ruiz ,  

An accident that he hit me at all ,  the cabron ,  5 he said to 
the interpreter .  

What does he say ?  asked the detective sergeant ,  looking 
across the bed at the interpreter .  

He says it was an accident .  

Tell him to tell the truth ,  that he is going to die ,  the 
detective said .  

Na ,  said Cayetano .  But tell him that I feel very sick and 
would prefer not to talk so much .  5 

440 



GAMBLER ,  NUN ,  AND RADIO 441 

He says that he is telling the truth ,  the interpreter said .  
Then ,  speaking confidently ,  to the detective ,  He dont know 
who shot him .  They shot him in the back .  

Yes ,  5 said the detective .  C I understand that ,  but why did 
the bullets all go in the front ?  

Maybe he is spinning around ,  said the interpreter .  

Listen ,  said the detective ,  shaking his finger almost at 
Cayetanos nose ,  which projected ,  waxen yellow ,  from his 
dead - mans face in which his eyes were alive as a hawks ,  
I dont give a damn who shot you ,  but Ive got to clear 
this thing up .  Dont you want the man who shot you to be 
punished ?  Tell him that ,  he said to the interpreter .  

He says to tell who shot you .  

Mandarlo al carajo ,  said Cayetano ,  who was very tired .  

He says he never saw the fellow at all ,  the interpreter s^id .  
*I tell you straight they shot him in the back .  

Ask him who shot the Russian .  

Poor Russian ,  said Cayetano .  He was on the floor with 
his head enveloped in his arms .  He started to give cries when 
they shoot him and he is giving cries ever since .  Poor 
Russian .  

He says some fellow that he doesnt know .  Maybe the 
same fellow that shot him .  

Listen ,  the detective said .  This isnt Chicago .  Youre 
not a gangster .  You dont have to act like a moving picture .  
Its all right to tell who shot you .  Anybody would tell who 
shot them .  Thats all right to do .  Suppose you dont tell 
who he is and he shoots somebody else .  Suppose he shoots a 
woman or a child .  You cant let him get away with that .  
You tell him ,  he said to Mr .  Frazer .  I dont trust that damn 
interpreter .  

I am very reliable ,  the interpreter said .  Cayetano looked 
at Mr .  Frazer .  

Listen ,  amigo ,  said Mr .  Frazer .  The policeman says that 
we are not in Chicago but in Hailey ,  Montana .  You are not 
a bandit and this has nothing to do with the cinema .  5 



442 GAMBLER ,  NUN ,  AND RADIO 

I believe him /  said Cayetano softly .  Ya lo creo .  

One can ,  with honour ,  denounce ones assailant .  Every 
one does it here ,  he says .  He says what happens if after 
shooting you ,  this man shoots a woman or a child ?  5 

I am not married ,  Cayetano said .  

c He says any woman ,  any child .  3 

The man is not crazy ,  Cayetano said .  

He says you should denounce him ,  Mr .  Frazer finished .  

Thank you /  Cayetano said .  You are of the great trans -  
lators .  I speak English ,  but badly .  I understand it all right .  
How did you break your leg ?  

A fall off ahorse .  

What bad luck .  I am very sorry .  Does it hurt much ?  

Not now .  At first ,  yes .  

Listen ,  amigo /  Cayetano began ,  I am very weak .  You 
will pardon me .  Also I have much pain ;  enough pain .  It 
is very possible that I die .  Please get this policeman out of 
here because I am very tired .  He made as though to roll to 
one side ;  then held himself still .  

I told him everything exactly as you said and he said to 
tell you ,  truly ,  that he doesnt know who shot him and that 
he is very weak and wishes you would question him later on /  
Mr .  Frazer said .  

Hell probably be dead later on .  

Thats quite possible .  

Thats why I want to question him now .  

Somebody shot him in the back ,  I tell you /  the interpreter 
said .  

Oh ,  for Chrisake /  the detective sergeant said ,  and put his 
notebook in his pocket .  

Outside in the corridor the detective sergeant stood with 
the interpreter beside Mr .  Frazers wheeled chair .  

I suppose you think somebody shot him in the back too ?  
Yes /  Frazer said .  Somebody shot him in the back .  
Whats it to you ?  



GAMBLER NUN ,  AND RADIO 44 ?  

Dont get sore /  the sergeant said .  I wish I could talk 
spick .  5 

Why dont you learn ?  

You dont have to get sore .  I dont get any fun out of 
asking that spick question .  If I could talk spick it would be 
different .  

You dont need to talk Spanish /  the interpreter said .  Tm 
a very reliable interpreter /  

Oh ,  for Chrisake ,  the sergeant said .  Well ,  so long .  Ill 
come up and see you .  

Thanks .  Im always in .  

I guess you are all right .  That was bad luck all right .  
Plenty bad luck .  

Its coming along good now since he spliced the bone .  

Yes ,  but its a long time .  A long ,  long time .  

Dont let anybody shoot you in the back .  

Thats right ,  he said .  Thats right .  Well ,  Im glad youre 
not sore .  

So long ,  said Mr .  Frazer .  

Mr .  Frazer did not see Cayctano again for a long time ,  but 
each morning Sister Cecilia brought news of him .  He was so 
uncomplaining she said and he was very bad now .  He had 
peritonitis and they thought he could not live .  Poor Caye -  
tano ,  she said .  He had such beautiful hands and such a fine 
face and he never complains .  The odour ,  now ,  was really 
terrific .  He would point toward his nose with one finger and 
smile and shake his head ,  she said .  He felt badly about the 
odour .  It embarrassed him ,  Sister Cecilia said .  Oh ,  he was 
such a fine patient .  He always smiled .  He wouldnt go to 
confession to Father but he promised to say his prayers ,  and 
not a Mexican had been to see him since he had been brought 
in .  The Russian was going out at the end of the week .  I 
could never feel anything about the Russian ,  Sister Cecilia 
said .  Poor fellow ,  he suffered too .  It was a greased bullet 
and dirty and the wound infected ,  but he made so much 



444 GAMBLER ,  NUN ,  AND RADIO 

noise and then I always like the bad ones .  That Cayetano ,  
hes a bad one .  Oh ,  he must really be a bad one ,  a thoroughly 
bad one ,  hes so fine and delicately made and hes never done 
any work with his hands .  Hes not a beet worker .  I know hes 
not a beet worker .  His hands are as smooth and not a callous 
on them .  I know hes a bad one of some sort .  Im going 
down and pray for him now .  Poor Gayetano ,  hes having a 
dreadful time and he doesnt make a sound .  What did they 
have to shoot him for ?  Oh ,  that poor Cayetano! Im going 
right down and pray for him .  

She went right down and prayed for him .  

In that hospital a radio did not work very well until it was 
dusk .  They said it was because there was so much ore in the 
ground or something about the mountains ,  but anyway it did 
not work well at all until it began to get dark outside ;  but 
all night it worked beautifully and when one station stopped 
you could go farther west and pick up another .  The last 
one that you could get was Seattle ,  Washington ,  and due to 
the difference in time ,  when they signed off at four oclock 
in the morning it was five oclock in the morning in the hos -  
pital ;  and at six oclock you could get the morning revellers in 
Minneapolis .  That was on account of the difference in time ,  
too ,  and Mr .  Frazer used to like to think of the morning 
revellers arriving at the studio and picture how they would 
look getting off a street car before daylight in the morning 
carrying their instruments .  Maybe that was wrong and they 
kept their instruments at the place they revelled ,  but he 
always pictured them with their instruments .  He had never 
been in Minneapolis and believed he probably would never 
go there ,  but he knew what it looked like that early in the 
morning .  

Out of the window of the hospital you could see a field with 
tumbleweed coming out of the snow ,  and a bare clay butte .  
One morning the doctor wanted to show Mr .  Frazer two 
pheasants that were out there in the snow ,  and pulling the 



GAMBLER ,  NUN ,  AND RADIO 445 

bed toward the window ,  the reading light fell off the iron 
bedstead and hit Mr .  Frazer on the head .  This does not 
sound so funny now but it was very funny then .  Everyone 
was looking out the window ,  and the doctor ,  who was a most 
excellent doctor ,  was pointing at the pleasants and pulling 
the bed toward the window ,  and then ,  just as in a comic 
section ,  Mr .  Frazer was knocked out by the leaded base of 
the lamp hitting the top of his head .  It seemed the antithesis 
of healing or whatever people were in the hospital for ,  and 
everyone thought it was very funny ,  as a joke on Mr .  Frazer 
and on the doctor .  Everything is much simpler in a hospital ,  
including the jokes .  

From the other window ,  if the bed was turned ,  you could 
see the town ,  with a little smoke above it ,  and the Dawson 
mountains looking like real mountains with the winter snow 
on them .  Those were the two views since the wheeled chair 
had proved to be premature .  It is really best to be in bed if 
you arc in a hospital ;  since two views ,  with time to observe 
them ,  from a room the temperature of which you control ,  are 
much better than any number of views seen for a few 
minutes from hot ,  empty rooms that are waiting for someone 
else ,  or just abandoned ,  which you are wheeled in and out of .  
If you stay long enough in a room the view ,  whatever it is ,  
acquires a great value and becomes very important and you 
would not change it ,  not even by a different angle .  Just as ,  
with the radio ,  there are certain things that you become 
fond of ,  and you welcome them and resent the new things .  
The best tunes they had that winter were Sing Something 
Simple ,  Singsong Girl ,  and Little White Lies .  No other 
tunes were as satisfactory ,  Mr .  Frazer felt .  Betty Co - ed 
was a good tune too ,  but the parody of the words which came 
unavoidably into Mr .  Frazers mind ,  grew so steadily and 
increasingly obscene that there being no one to appreciate it ,  
he finally abandoned it and let the song go back to football .  

About nine oclock in the morning they would start using 
the X - ray machine ,  and then the radio ,  which ,  by then ,  was 



446 GAMBLER ,  NUN ,  AND RADIO 

only getting Hailey ,  became useless .  Many people in Hailey 
who owned radios protested about the hospitals X - ray 
machine which ruihed their morning reception ,  but there 
was never any action taken ,  although many felt it was a 
shame the hospital could not use their machine at a time 
when people were not using their radios .  

About the time when it became necessary to turn off the 
radio Sister Cecilia came in .  

Hows Cayetano ,  Sister Cecilia ?  Mr .  Frazer asked .  

c Oh ,  hes very bad .  

Is he out of his head ?  

No ,  but Im afraid hes going to die .  

How are you ?  

Im very worried about him ,  and do you know that 
absolutely no one has come to see him ?  He could die just 
like a dog for all those Mexicans care .  Theyre really 
dreadful .  

Do you want to come up and hear the game this after -  
noon ?  

Oh ,  no ,  she said .  Id be too excited .  Ill be in the chapel 
praying .  

We ought to be able to hear it pretty well ,  Mr .  Frazer 
said .  Theyre playing out on the coast and the difference in 
time will bring it late enough so we can get it all right .  5 

Oh ,  no .  I couldnt do it .  The world series nearly finished 
me .  When the Athletics were at bat I was praying right out 
loud:  " Oh ,  Lord ,  direct their batting eyes! Oh ,  Lord ,  may 
he hit one! Oh ,  Lord ,  may he hit safely! "  Then when they 
filled the bases in the third game ,  you remember ,  it was too 
much for me .   " Oh ,  Lord ,  may he hit it out of the lot! Oh ,  
Lord ,  may he drive it clean over the fence! "  Then you know 
when the Cardinals would come to bat it was simply dread -  
ful .   " Oh ,  Lord ,  may they not see it! Oh ,  Lord ,  dont let 
them even catch a glimpse of it .  Oh ,  Lord ,  may they fan! "  
And this game is even worse .  Its Notre Dame .  Our Lady .  
No ,  Fll be in the chapel .  For Our Lady .  Theyre playing 



GAMBLER ,  NUN ,  AND RADIO 447 

for Our Lady .  I wish youd write something sometime for 
Our Lady .  You could do it .  You know you could do it ,  
Mr .  Frazer .  

I dont know anything about her that I could write .  Its 
mostly been written already /  Mr .  Frazer said .  You 
wouldnt like the way I write .  She wouldnt care for it 
either .  

Youll write about her sometime ,  Sister said .  I know 
you will .  You must write about Our Lady .  

Youd better come up and hear the game .  

It would be too much for me .  No ,  Ill be in the chapel 
doing what I can .  

That afternoon they had been playing about five minutes 
when a probationer came into the room and said ,  Sister 
Cecilia wants to know how the game is going ?  

Tell her they have a touchdown already .  

In a little while the probationer came into die room again .  

Tell her theyre playing them off their feet ,  Mr .  Frazer said .  

A little later he rang the  , bell for the nurse who was on 
floor duty .  Would you mind going down to the chapel or 
sending word to Sister Cecilia that Notre Dame has them 
fourteen to nothing at die end of the first quarter and that 
its all right .  She can stop praying .  

In a few minutes Sister Cecilia came into the room .  She 
was very excited .  What does fourteen to nothing mean ?  I 
dont know anything about this game .  Thats a nice safe lead 
in baseball .  But I dont know anything about football .  It 
may not mean a thing .  Im going right back down to the 
chapel and pray until its finished .  

They have them beaten /  Frazer said .  I promise you .  
Stay and listen with me .  

No .  No .  No .  No .  No .  No .  No ,  she said .  Im going 
right down to the chapel to pray .  3 

Mr .  Frazer sent down word whenever Notre Dame scored ,  
and finally ,  when it had been dark a long time ,  the final 
result .  



448 GAMBLER ,  NUN ,  AND RADIO 

Hows Sister Cecilia ?  
Theyre all at chapel /  she said .  

The next morning Sister Cecilia came in .  She was very 
pleased and confident .  

I knew they couldnt beat Our Lady ,  she said .  They 
couldnt .  Cayetanos better too .  Hes much better .  Hes 
going to have visitors .  He cant see them yet ,  but they are 
going to come and that will make him feel better and know 
hes not forgotten by his own people .  I went down and saw 
that OBrien boy at Police Headquarters and told him that 
hes got to send some Mexicans up to see poor Cayetano .  
Hes going to send some this afternoon .  Then that poor man 
will feel better .  Its wicked the way no one has come to see 
him .  

TJiat afternoon about five oclock three Mexicans came 
into the room .  

Can one ?  asked the biggest one ,  who had very thick lips 
and was quite fat .  

Why not ?  Mr .  Frazer answered .  Sit down ,  gentlemen .  
Will you take something ?  

Many thanks ,  said the big one .  

Thanks ,  said the darkest and smallest one .  

Thanks ,  no ,  said the thin one .  It mounts to my head .  5 
He tapped his head .  

The nurse brought some glasses .  Tlease give them the 
bottle ,  Frazer said .  It is from Red Lodge ,  he explained .  

That of Red Lodge is the best ,  said the big one .  Much 
better than that of Big Timber .  

Clearly /  said the smallest one ,  and costs more too .  

In Red Lodge it is of all prices ,  said the big one .  

How many tubes has the radio ?  asked the one who did 
not drink .  

Seven .  

Very beautiful ,  he said .  What does it cost ?  

I dont know ,  5 Mr .  Frazer said .  It is rented .  

You gentlemen are friends of Cayetano ?  



GAMBLER ,  NUN ,  AND RADIO 449 

No ,  said the big one .  We are friends of he who wounded 
him .  

We were sent here by the police /  the smallest one 
said .  

We have a little place ,  5 the big one said .  He and I ,  
indicating the one who did not drink .  He has a little place 
too ,  indicating the small ,  dark one .  The police tell us we 
have to come so we come .  

I am very happy you have come .  

Equally ,  said the big one .  

Will you have another little cup ?  

Why not ?  said the big one .  

With your permission ,  said the smallest one .  

Not me ,  said the thin one .  It mounts to my head .  

It is very good ,  said the smallest one .  

Why not try some ,  Mr .  Frazer asked the thin one .  Let 
a little mount to your head .  

Afterwards comes the headache ,  said the thin one .  

Could you not send friends of Cayetano to see him ?  5 
Frazer asked .  

He has no friends .  

Every man has friends .  

This one ,  no .  

What does he do ?  

He is a card - player .  

Is he good ?  

I believe it .  

From me ,  said the smallest one ,  he won one hundred and 
eighty dollars .  Now there is no longer one hundred and 
eighty dollars in the world .  

From me ,  said the thin one ,  he won two hundred and 
eleven dollars .  Fix yourself on that figure .  

I never played with him ,  said the fat one .  

He must be very rich ,  Mr .  Frazer suggested ,  

He is poorer than we ,  said the little Mexican .  He has no 
more than the shirt on his back .  

FF 



450 GAMBLER ,  NUN ,  AND RADIO 

And that shirt is of little value now ,  Mr .  Frazer said .  
Perforated as it is .  

Clearly .  

The one who wounded him was a card - player ?  

No ,  a beet worker .  He has had to leave town .  

Fix yourself on this ,  said the smallest one .  He was the 
best guitar player ever in this town .  The finest .  5 

What a shame .  

 " I believe it ,  said the biggest one .  How he could touch the 
guitar .  

There are no good guitar players left ?  

Not the shadow of a guitar player .  

There is an accordion player who is worth something ,  the 
thin man said .  

There are a few who touch various instruments ,  the big 
one said .  You like music ?  

How would I not ?  -  

We will come one night with music ?  You think the sister 
would allow it ?  She seems very amiable .  

I am sure she would permit it when Cayetano is able to 
hear it .  

Is she a little crazy ?  asked the thin one .  

Who ?  

That sister .  

No /  Mr ,  Frazer said .  She is a fine woman of great intel -  
ligence and sympathy .  

I distrust all priests ,  monks ,  and sisters ,  said the thin one .  

He had bad experiences when a boy ,  the smallest one 
said .  

I was acolyte ,  the thin one said proudly .  Now I believe 
in nothing .  Neither do I go to mass .  

Why ?  Does it mount to your head ?  

No ,  said the thin one .  It is alcohol that mounts to my 
head .  Religion is the opium of the poor .  

*I thought marijuana was the opium of the poor ,  Frazer 
said .  



GAMBLER ,  NUN ,  AND RADIO 451 

Did you ever smoke opium ?  the big one asked .  

No .  5 

Nor I ,  he said .  It seems it is very bad .  One commences 
and cannot stop .  It is a vice .  

Like religion /  said the thin one .  

This one ,  said the smallest Mexican ,  is very strong 
against religion .  

It is necessary to be very strong against something ,  5 Mr .  
Frazer said politely .  

I respect those who have faith even though they are 
ignorant ,  the thin one said .  

Good ,  said Mr .  Frazer .  

What can we bring you ?  asked the big Mexican .  Do you 
lack for anything ?  

I would be glad to buy some beer if there is good beer .  

We will bring beer .  5 

Another copita before you go ?  

It is very good .  5 

We are robbing you .  5 

I cant take it .  It^goes to my head .  Then I have a bad 
headache and sick at the stomach .  

Good - bye ,  gentlemen .  

Good - bye and thanks .  

They went out and there was supper and then the radio ,  
turned to be as quiet as possible and still be heard ,  and the 
stations finally signing off in this order: Denver ,  Salt Lake City ,  
Los Angeles ,  and Seattle .  Mr .  Frazer received no picture of 
Denver from the radio .  He could see Denver from the Denver 
Post ,  and correct the picture from the Rocky Mountain News .  
Nor did he ever have any feel of Salt Lake City or Los Angeles 
from what he heard from those places .  All he felt about Salt 
Lake City was that it was clean ,  but dull ,  and there were too 
many ballrooms mentioned in too many big hotels for him to 
see Los Angeles .  He could not feel it for the ballrooms .  But 
Seattle he came to know very well ,  the taxicab cfompany with 
the big white cabs  ( each cab equipped with radio itself )  he 



452 GAMBLER ,  NUN ,  AND RADIO 

rode in every night out to the roadhouse on the Canadian 
side where he followed the course of parties by the musical 
selections they phoned for .  He lived in Seattle from two 
oclock on ,  each night ,  hearing the pieces that all the 
different people asked for ,  and it was as real as Minneapolis ,  
where the revellers left their beds each morning to make that 
trip down to the studio .  Mr .  Frazer grew very fond of 
Seattle ,  Washington .  

The Mexicans came and brought beer but it was not good 
beer .  Mr .  Frazer saw them but he did not feel like talking ,  
and when they went he knew they would not come again .  
His nerves had become tricky and he disliked seeing people 
while he was in this condition .  His nerves went bad at the 
encj of five weeks ,  and while he was pleased they lasted that 
long yet he resented being forced to make the same experi -  
 - ment when he already knew the answer .  Mr .  Frazer had 
been through this all before .  The only thing which was new 
to him was the radio .  He played it all night long ,  turned so 
low he could barely hear it ,  and he was learning to listen to 
it without thinking .  

Sister Cecilia came into the room about ten oclock in the 
morning on that day and brought the mail .  She was very 
handsome ,  and Mr .  Frazer liked to see her and to hear her 
talk ,  but the mail ,  supposedly coming from a different world ,  
was important .  However ,  there was nothing in the mail 
of any interest .  

You look so much better ,  5 she said .  Youll be leaving us 
soon .  

Yes ,  Mr .  Frazer said .  You look very happy this 
morning .  

Oh ,  I am .  This morning I feel as though I might be a 
saint .  

Mr .  Frazer was a little taken aback at this .  

Yes ,  Sister Cecilia went on .  Thats what I want to be .  A 



GAMBLER ,  NUN ,  AND RADIO 453 

saint .  Ever since I was a little girl Ive wanted to be a saint .  
When I was a girl I thought if I renounced the world and 
went into the convent I would be a saint .  That was what I 
wanted to be and that was what I thought I had to do to be 
one .  I expected I would be a saint ,  I was absolutely sure I 
would be one .  For just a moment I thought I was one .  I was 
so happy and it seemed so simple and easy .  When I awoke 
in the morning I expected I would be a saint ,  but I wasnt .  
Ive never become one .  I want so to be one .  All I want is to 
be a saint .  That is all Ive ever wanted .  And this morning 
I feel as though I might be one .  Oh ,  I hope I will get to be 
one .  

Youll be one .  Everybody gets what they want .  Thats 
what they always tell me .  

I dont know now .  When I was a girl it seemecj so 
simple .  I knew I would be a saint .  Only I believed it took 
time when I found it did not happen suddenly .  Now it 
seems almost impossible .  

Td say you had a good chance .  

Do you really think so ?  No ,  I dont want just to be 
encouraged .   .  Dont just encourage me .  I want to be a saint .  
I want to be a saint .  

Of course youll be a saint ,  Mr .  Frazer said .  

No ,  probably I wont be .  But ,  oh ,  if I could only be a 
saint! Id be perfectly happy .  

Youre three to one to be a saint .  

No ,  dont encourage me .  But ,  oh ,  if I could only be a 
saint! If I could only be a saint! 

Hows your friend Cayetano ?  

Hes going to get well ,  but hes paralysed .  One of the 
bullets hit the big nerve that goes down through his thigh 
and that leg is paralysed .  They only found it out when he 
got well enough so that he could move .  

Maybe the nerve will regenerate .  

Tm praying that it will /  Sister Cecilia said You ought 
to see him .  5 



454 GAMBLER ,  NUN ,  AND RADIO 

I dont feel like seeing anybody .  3 

You know youd like to see him .  They could wheel him 
in here .  
All right .  

They wheeled him in ,  thin ,  his skin transparent ,  his hair 
black and needing to be cut ,  his eyes very laughing ,  his teeth 
bad when he smiled .  

Hola ,  amigo! Que tal ?  

As you see ,  said Mr .  Frazer .  And thou ?  

Alive and with the leg paralysed .  

Bad ,  5 Mr .  Frazer said .  But the nerve can regenerate and 
be as good as new .  

So they tell me .  

 , What about the pain ?  

Not now .  For a while I was crazy with it in the belly .  I 
thought the pain alone would kill me .  

Sister Cecilia was observing them happily .  

She tells me you never made a sound ,  Mr .  Frazer said .  

So many people in the ward ,  the Mexican said deprecat -  
ingly .  What class of pain do you have ?  

Big enough .  Clearly not as bad as yours .  When the nurse 
goes out I cry an hour ,  two hours .  It rests me .  My nerves 
are bad now .  

You have the radio .  If I had a private room and a radio I 
would be crying and yelling all night long .  

I doubt it .  

Hombre ,  Si .  Its very healthy .  But you cannot do it with 
so many people .  

At least ,  Mr .  Frazer said ,  the hands are still good .  They 
tell me you make your living with the hands .  

And the head /  he said ,  tapping his forehead ,  But the 
head isnt worth as much .  

Three of your countrymen were here .  

Sent by the police tc see me .  5 

They brought some beer .  5 



GAMBLER ,  NUN ,  AND RADIO 455 

It probably was bad .  

It was bad .  5 

To - night ,  sent by the police ,  they come to serenade me .  
He laughed ,  then tapped his stomach .  I cannot laugh yet .  
As musicians  . they are fatal .  3 

And the one who shot you ?  

Another fool .  I won thirty - eight dollars from him at cards ,  
That is not to kill about .  5 

The three told me you win much money .  5 

And am poorer than the birds .  5 

How ?  5 

I am a poor idealist .  I am the victim of illusions .  5 He 
laughed ,  then grinned and tapped his stomach .  I am a pro -  
fessional gambler but I like to gamble .  To really gamble .  
Little gambling is all crooked .  For real gambling you need 
luck .  I have no luck .  5 

Never ?  5 

Never .  I am completely without luck .  Look ,  this cabron 
who shoots me just now .  Can he shoot ?  No .  The first shot he 
fires into nothing .  The second is intercepted by a poor 
Russian .  That would seem to be luck .  What happens ?  He 
shoots me twice in the belly .  He is a lucky man .  I have no 
luck .  He could not hit a horse if he were holding the stirrup .  
All luck .  5 

I thought he shot you first and the Russian after .  

No ,  the Russian first ,  me after .  The paper was mistaken .  5 

Why didn  ?  t you shoot him ?  5 

C I never carry a gun .  With my luck ,  if I carried a gun I 
would be hanged ten times a year .  I am a cheap card player ,  
only that .  He stopped ,  then continued .  When I make a 
sum of money I gamble and when I gamble I lose .  I have 
passed at dice for three thousand dollars and crapped out for 
the six .  With good dice .  More than once .  5 

Why continue ?  

If I live long enough the luck wil] change .  I have bad luck 
now for fifteen years .  If I ever get any good luck I will be 



456 GAMBLER ,  NUN ,  AND RADIO 

rich .  He grinned .  I am a good gambler ,  really I would 
enjoy being rich .  

Do you have bad luck with all games ?  5 

With everything and with women .  He smiled again ,  
showing his bad teeth .  

Truly ?  

Truly .  

And what is there to do ?  

Continue ,  slowly ,  and wait for luck to change .  

But with women ?  

No gambler has luck with women .  He is too concen -  
trated .  He works nights .  When he should be with the 
woman .  No man who works nights can hold a woman if the 
woman is worth anything .  

Ypu are a philosopher .  

No ,  hombre .  A gambler of the small towns .  One small 
town ,  then another ,  another ,  then a big town ,  then start over 
again .  

Then shot in the belly .  

The first time ,  he said .  That has only happened once .  

I tire you talking ?  Mr .  Frazer suggested .  

No ,  he said .  I must tire you .  

And the leg ?  

I have no great use for the leg .  I am all right with the leg 
or not .  I will be able to circulate .  

I wish you luck ,  truly ,  and with all my heart ,  Mr .  Frazer 
said .  

Equally ,  he said .  And that the pain stops .  

It will not last ,  certainly .  It is passing .  It is of no impor -  
tance .  

That it passes quickly .  

Equally .  

That night the Mexicans played the accordion and other 
instruments in Ihe ward and it was cheerful and the noise of 
the inhalations and exhalations of the accordion ,  and of the 



GAMBLER ,  NUN ,  AND RADIO 457 

bells ,  the traps ,  and the drum came down the corridor .  In 
that ward there was a rodeo rider who had come out of the 
chutes on Midnight on a hot dusty afternoon with the big 
crowd watching ,  and now ,  with a broken back ,  was going to 
learn to work in leather and to cane chairs when he got well 
enough to leave the hospital .  There was a carpenter who had 
fallen with a scaffolding and broken both ankles and both 
wrists .  He had lit like a cat but without a cats resiliency .  
They could fix him up so that he could work again but it 
would take a long time .  There was a boy from a farm ,  about 
sixteen years old ,  with a broken leg that had been badly set and 
was to be rebroken .  There was Cayetano Ruiz ,  a small - town 
gambler with a paralysed leg .  Down the corridor Mr .  Frazer 
could hear them all laughing and merry with the music made 
by the Mexicans who had been sent by the police .  JThe 
Mexicans were having a good time .  They came in ,  very 
excited ,  to see Mr .  Frazer and wanted to know if there was 
anything he wanted them to play ,  and they came twice more 
to play at night of their own accord .  

The last time they played Mr .  Fraser lay in his room with 
the door open and listened to the noisy ,  bad music and could 
not keep from thinking .  When they wanted to know what he 
wished played ,  he asked for the Cucaracha ,  which has the 
sinister lightness and deftness of so many of the tunes men 
have gone to die to .  They played noisily and with emotion .  
The tune was better than most of such tunes ,  to Mr .  Frazer s 
mind ,  but the effect was all the same .  

In spite of this introduction of emotion ,  Mr .  Frazer went on 
thinking .  Usually he avoided thinking all he could ,  except 
when he was writing ,  but now he was thinking about those 
who were playing and what the little one had said .  

Religion is the opium of the people .  He believed that ,  that 
dyspeptic little joint - keeper .  Yes ,  and music is the opium of 
the people .  Old mount - to - the - head hadnt thought of that .  
And now economics is the opium of the people ;  along with 
patriotism the opium of the people in Italy and Germany .  



45 GAMBLER ,  NUN ,  AND RADIO 

What about sexual intercourse ;  was that an opium of the 
people ?  Of some of the people .  Of some of the best of the 
people .  But drink was a sovereign opium of the people ,  oh ,  
an excellent opium .  Although some prefer the radio ,  another 
opium of the people ,  a cheap one he had just been using .  
Along with these went gambling ,  an opium of the people if 
there ever was one ,  one of the oldest .  Ambition was another^ 
an opium of the people ,  along with a belief in any new form 
of government .  What you wanted was the minimum of 
government ,  always less government .  Liberty ,  what we 
believed in ,  now the name of a MacFadden publication .  We 
believed in that although they had not found a new name for 
it yet .  But what was the real one ?  What was the real ,  the 
actual ,  opium of the people ?  He knew it very well .  It was 
gonf just a little way around the corner in that well - lighted 
part of his mind that was there after two or more drinks in 
the evening ;  that he knew was there  ( it was not really there 
of course )  .  What was it ?  He knew very well .  What was it ?  
Of course ;  bread was the opium of the people .  Would he 
remember that and would it make sense in the daylight ?  
Bread is the opium of the people .  

Listen ,  5 Mr .  Frazer said to the nurse when she came .  Get 
that little thin Mexican in here ,  will you ,  please ?  

How do you like it ?  the Mexican said at the door .  

Very much .  

It is a historic tune ,  the Mexican said .  It is the tune of 
the real revolution .  

Listen ,  said Mr .  Frazer .  Why should the people be 
operated on without an anaesthetic ?  

I do not understand .  

Why are not all the opiums of the people good ?  What da 
you want to do with the people ?  

They should be rescued from ignorance .  

Dont talk nonsense .  Education is an opium of the people .  
You ought toTcnow thaK Youve had a little .  

You do not believe in education ?  



GAMBLER ,  NUN ,  AND RADIO 45^ 

No ,  said Mr .  Frazer .  In knowledge ,  yes .  

I do not follow you .  

Many times I do not follow myself with pleasure .  

You want to hear the  " Cucaracha "  another time ?  asked 
the Mexican worriedly .  

Yes ,  said Mr .  Frazer .  Play the  " Cucaracha "  another 
time .  Its better than the radio .  

Revolution ,  Mr .  Frazer thought ,  is no opium .  Revolution 
is a catharsis ;  an ecstasy which can only be prolonged by 
tyranny .  The opiums are for before and for after .  He was 
thinking well ,  a little too well .  

They would go now in a little while ,  he thought ,  and they 
would take the Cucaracha with them .  Then he would have 
a little spot of the giant killer and play the radio ,  you could 
play the radio so that you could hardly hear it .  



FATHERS AND SONS 

THERE had been a sign to detour in the centrq of the main 
street of this town ,  but cars had obviously gone through ,  so ,  
believing it was some repair which had been completed ,  
Nicholas Adams drove on through the town along the empty ,  
brick - paved street ,  stopped by traffic lights that flashed on 
and off on this traffic - less Sunday ,  and would be gone next 
year when the payments on the system were not met ;  on 
under the heavy trees of the small town that are a part of 
your heart if it is your town and you have walked under 
them ,  but that are only too heavy ,  that shut out the sun and 
that flampen the houses for a stranger ;  out past the last house 
and on to the highway that rose and fell straight away ahead 
with banks of red dirt^ sliced cleanly away and the second -  
growth timber on both sides .  It was not his country but it 
was the middle of fall and all of this country was good to drive 
through and to see .  The cotton was picked and in the 
clearings there were patches of corn ,  some cut with streaks 
of red sorghum ,  and ,  driving easily ,  his son asleep on the 
seat by his side ,  the days run made ,  knowing the town he 
would reach for the night ,  Nick noticed which cornfields had 
soy beans or peas in them ,  how the thickets and the cut - over 
land lay ,  where the cabins and houses were in relation to the 
fields and the thickets ;  hunting the country in his mind as he 
went by ;  sizing up each clearing as to feed and cover and 
figuring where you would find a covey and which way they 
would fly .  

In shooting quail you must not get between them and 
their habitual cover ,  once the dogs have found them ,  or when 
they flush they will come pouring at you ,  some rising steep ,  
some skimming by your ears ,  whirring into a size you have 
never seen theril in the ah ;  as they pass ,  the only way being to 
turn and take them over your shoulder as they go ,  before they 

460 



FATHERS AND SONS 461 

set their wings and angle down into the thicket .  Hunting this 
country for quail as his father taught him ,  Nicholas Adams 
started thinking about his father .  When he first thought 
about him it was always the eyes .  The big frame ,  the quick 
movements ,  the wide shoulders ,  the hooked ,  hawk nose ,  the 
beard that covered the weak chin ,  you never thought 
about it was always the eyes .  They were protected in his 
head by the formation of the brows ;  set deep as though a 
special protection had been devised for some very valuable 
instrument .  They saw much farther and much quicker than 
the human eye sees and they were the great gift his father 
had .  His father saw as a big - horn ram or as an eagle sees ,  ,  
literally .  

He would be standing with his father on one shore of the 
lake ,  his own eyes were very good then ,  and his father  \ ^ould 
say ,  Theyve run up the flag .  Nick could not see the flag or 
the flag pole .  There ,  his father would say ,  its your sister 
Dorothy .  Shes got the flag up and shes walking out on to 
the dock .  

Nick would look across the lake and he could see the long 
wooded shore - line ,  the higher timber behind ,  the point that 
guarded the bay ,  the clear hills of the farm and the white of 
their cottage in the trees ,  but he could not see any flag pole ,  or 
any dock ,  only the white of the beach and the curve of the 
shore .  

Can you see the sheep on the hill - side toward the point ?  

Yes .  

They were a whitish patch on the grey - green of the hill .  

I can count them ,  his father said .  

Like all men with a faculty that surpasses human require -  
ments ,  his father was very nervous .  Then ,  too ,  he was 
sentimental ,  and ,  like most sentimental people ,  he was both 
cruel and abused .  Also ,  he had much bad luck ,  and it was 
not all of it his own .  HeJiad died in a trap that he had helped 
only a little to set ,  and they had >11 betray&l him in their 
various ways before he died .  All sentimental people are 



462 FATHERS AND SONS 

betrayed so many times .  Nick could not write about him yet ,  
although he would ,  later ,  but the quail country made him 
remember him as he was when Nick was a boy and he was 
very grateful to him for two things: fishing and shooting .  
His father was as sound on those two things as he was 
unsound on sex ,  for instance ,  and Nick was glad that it had 
been that way ;  for someone has to give you your first gun or 
the opportunity to get it and use it ,  and you have to live 
where there is game or fish if you are to learn about them ,  
and now ,  at thirty - eight ,  he loved to fish and to shoot exactly 
as much as when he first had gone with his father .  It was a 
passion that had never slackened and he was very grateful to 
his father for bringing him to know it .  

While for the other ,  that his father was not sound about ,  all 
the equipment you will ever have is provided and each man 
learns all there is for him to know about it without advice ;  
and it makes no difference where you live .  He remembered 
very clearly the only two pieces of information his father had 
given him about that .  Once when they were out shooting 
together Nick shot a red squirrel out of a hemlock tree .  The 
squirrel fell ,  wounded ,  and when Nick picked him up bit the 
boy clean through the ball of the thumb .  

The dirty little bugger ,  Nick said and smacked the 
squirrels head against the tree .  Look how he bit me .  3 

His father looked and said ,  Suck it out clean and put 
some iodine on when you get home .  

The little bugger ,  Nick said .  

Do you know what a bugger is ?  his father asked him .  

We call anything a bugger ,  Nick said .  

*A bugger is a man who has intercourse with animals .  

Why ?  Nick said .  

I dont know ,  his father said .  But it is a heinous crime . * 
 -  Nicks imagination was both stirred and horrified by this 
and he thought of various animals but none seemed attractive 
or practical anJ that was the sum total of direct sexual know -  
le<Jge bequeathed him by his father except on one other 



FATHERS AND SONS 463 

subject .  One morning he read in the paper that Enrico 
Caruso had been arrested for mashing .  

What is mashing ?  

It is one of the most heinous of crimes ,  5 his father an -  
swered .  Nicks imagination pictured the great tenor doing 
something strange ,  bizarre ,  and heinous with a potato 
masher to a beautiful lady who looked like the pictures of 
Anna Held on the inside of cigar boxes .  He resolved ,  with 
considerable horror ,  that when he was old enough he would 
try mashing at least once .  

His father had summed up the whole matter by stating 
that masturbation produced blindness ,  insanity ,  and death ,  
while a man who went with prostitutes would contract 
hideous venereal diseases and that the thing to do was to 
keep your hands off of people .  On the other hand his father 
had the finest pair of eyes he had ever seen and Nick had 
loved him very much and for a long time .  Now ,  knowing 
how it had all been ,  even remembering the earliest times 
before things had gone badly was not good remembering .  
If he wrote it he could get rid of it .  He had gotten rid of 
many things by writing them .  But it was still too early for 
that .  There were still too many people .  So he decided to 
think of something else .  There was nothing to do about his 
father and he had thought it all through many times .  The 
handsome job the undertaker had done on his fathers face 
had not blurred in his mind and all the rest of it was quite 
clear ,  including the responsibilities .  He had complimented 
the undertaker .  The undertaker had not been both proud 
and smugly pleased .  But it was not the undertaker that had 
given him that last face .  The undertaker had only made 
certain dashingly executed repairs of doubtful artistic merit .  
The face had been making itself and being made for a long 
time .  It had modelled fast in the last three years .  It was 
a good story but there were still too many people alive for 
him to write it .  a * 

Nicks own education in those earlier matters had been ac -  



464 FATHERS AND SONS 

quired in the hemlock woods behind the Indian camp .  This 
was reached by a trail which ran from the cottage through the 
woods to the farm and then by a road which wound through 
the slashings to the camp .  Now if he could feel all of that 
trail with bare feet .  First there was the pine - needle loam 
through the hemlock woods behind the cottage where the 
fallen logs crumbled into wood dust and long splintered 
pieces of wood hung like javelins in the tree that had been 
struck by lightning .  You crossed the creek on a log and if 
you stepped off there was the black muck of the swamp .  You 
climbed a fence out of the woods and the trail was hard in the 
sun across the field with cropped grass and sheep sorrel and 
mullen growing and to the left the quaky bog of the creek 
bottom where the killdeer plover fed .  The spring house was 
in that creek .  Below the barn there was fresh warm manure 
and the other older manure that was caked dry on top .  Then 
there was another fence and the hard ,  hot trail from the 
barn to the house and the hot sandy road that ran down to 
the woods ,  crossing the creek ,  on a bridge this time ,  where 
the cat - tails grew that you soaked in kerosene to make jack -  
lights with for spearing fish at night .  

Then the main road went off to the left ,  skirting the woods 
and climbing the hill ,  while you went into the woods on the 
wide clay and shale road ,  cool under the trees ,  and broad -  
ened for them to skid out the hemlock bark the Indians cut .  
The hemlock bark was piled in long rows of stacks ,  roofed 
over with more bark ,  like houses ,  and the peeled logs lay huge 
and yellow where the trees had been felled .  They left the logs 
in the woods to rot ,  they did not even clear away or burn the 
tops .  It was only the bark they wanted for the tannery at 
Boyne City ;  hauling it across the lake on the ice in winter ,  
and each year there was less forest and more open ,  hot ,  shade -  
less ,  weed - grown slashing .  

But there was still much forest then ,  virgin forest where the 
trees grew high before there were any branches and you 
walked on the brown ,  clean ,  springy - needled ground with no 



FATHERS AND SONS 465 

undergrowth and it was cool on the hottest days and they three 
lay against the trunk of a hemlock wider than two beds are 
long ,  with the breeze high in the tops and the cool light that 
came in patches ,  and Billy said: 

You want Trudy again ?  

You want to ?  

Uh Huh .  

Come on .  

No ,  here .  5 

But Billy -  3 

I no mind Billy .  He my brother .  

Then afterwards they sat ,  the three of them ,  listening for 
a black squirrel that was in the top branches where they 
could not see him .  They were waiting for him to bark again 
because when he barked he would jerk his tail and Nick 
would shoot where he saw any movement .  His father gave 
him only three cartridges a day to hunt with and he had 
a single - barrel twenty - gauge shotgun with a very long 
barrel .  

Son of a bitch never move ,  Billy said .  

You shoot ,  Nickie .  Scare him .  We see him jump .  Shoot 
him again ,  Trudy said .  It was a long speech for her .  

Ive only got two shells ,  Nick said .  

Son of a bitch ,  said Billy .  

They sat against the tree and were quiet Nick was feeling 
hollow and happy .  

Eddie says he going to come some night sleep in bed with 
you sister Dorothy .  

What ?  

He said .  

Trudy nodded .  

Thats all he want do ,  she said .  Eddie was their older 
half - brother .  He was seventeen .  

If Eddie Gilby ever comes at night and even speaks to 
Dorothy you know what Id do to him ?  Id kill him like 

GO 



466 FATHERS AND SONS 

this .  Nick cocked the gun and hardly taking aim pulled 
the trigger ,  blowing a hole as big as your hand in the head 
or belly of that half - breed bastard Eddie Gilby .  Like that .  
Id kill him like that .  

He better not come then ,  5 Trudy said .  She put her hand 
in Nicks pocket .  

He better watch out plenty ,  said Billy .  

Hes big bluff ,  Trudy was exploring with her hand in 
Nicks pocket .  But dont you kill him .  You get plenty 
trouble .  

Td kill him like that ,  Nick said .  Eddie Gilby lay on the 
ground with all his chest shot away .  Nick put his foot on him 
proudly .  

Td scalp him ,  he said happily .  

No ,  said Trudy .  Thats dirty .  

Td scalp him and send it to his mother .  

His mother dead ,  Trudy said .  Dont you kill him ,  
Nickie .  Dont you kill him for me .  

After I scalped him Id throw him to the dogs .  

Billy was very depressed .  He better watch out ,  he said 
gloomily .  

Theyd tear him to pieces ,  Nick said ,  pleased with the pic -  
ture .  Then ,  having scalped that half - breed renegade and 
standing ,  watching the dogs tear him ,  his face unchanging ,  
he fell backward against the tree ,  held tight around the neck ,  
Trudy holding ,  choking him ,  and crying ,  No kill him! No 
kill him! No kill him! No .  No .  No .  Nickie .  Nickie ,  
Nickie! 

Whats the matter with you ?  

No kill him .  

I got to kill him .  

He just a big bluff .  

All right ,  Nickie said .  I wont kill him unless he comes 
around the house .  Let go of me .  

Thats gooa ,  Trudy s* \ id ,  You want to do anything now ?  
I feel good now ,  



FATHERS Ak> SONS 467 

If Billy goes away /  Nick had killed Eddie Gilby ,  then 
pardoned him his life ,  and he was a man now .  

You go ,  Billy .  You hang around all the time .  Go on .  

Son a bitch ,  5 Billy said .  I get tired this .  What we come ?  
Hunt or what ?  5 

You can take the gun .  There 5 s one shell .  5 

All right .  I get a big black one all right /  

Ill holler ,  Nick said .  

Then ,  later ,  it was a long time after and Billy was still 
away .  

You think we make a baby ?  Trudy folded her brown legs 
together happily and rubbed against him .  Something 
inside Nick had gone a long way away .  

I dont think so ,  he said .  

Make plenty baby what the hell .  

They heard Billy shoot .  

I wonder if he got one .  5 

Dont care ,  said Trudy .  

Billy came through the trees .  He had the gun over his 
shoulder and he held a black squirrel by the front paws .  

Look ,  he said .  Bigger than a cat .  You all through ?  

 Where 5 d you get him ?  5 

Over there .  Saw him jump first .  5 

Got to go home ,  Nick said .  

No ,  said Trudy .  

I got to get there for supper .  

All right .  

Want to hunt to - morrow ?  

All right .  

You can have the squirrel .  

All right /  

Gome out after supper ?  5 

No /  

How you feel ?  

Good /  



468 FATHERS AND SONS 

All right .  

Give me kiss on the face ,  said Trudy .  
Now ,  as he rode along the highway in the car and it was 
getting dark ,  Nick was all through thinking about his father .  
The end of the day never made him think of him .  The end 
of the day had always belonged to Nick alone and he never 
felt right unless he was alone at it .  His father came back to 
him in the fall of the year ,  or in the early spring when there 
had been jacksnipe on the prairie ,  or when he saw shocks of 
corn ,  or when he saw a lake ,  or if he ever saw a horse and 
buggy ,  or when he saw ,  or heard ,  wild geese ,  or in a duck 
blind ;  remembering the time an eagle dropped through the 
whirling snow to strike a canvas - covered decoy ,  rising ,  his 
wings beating ,  the talons caught in the canvas .  His father 
was with him ,  suddenly ,  in deserted orchards and in new -  
ploughed fields ,  in thickets ,  on small hills ,  or when  . going 
through dead grass ,  * whenever splitting wood or hauling 
water ,  by grist mills ,  cider mills and dams and always with 
open fires .  The towns he lived in were not towns his father 
knew .  After he was fifteen he had shared nothing with him .  
His father had frost in his beard in cold weather and in hot 
weather he sweated very much .  He liked to work in the sun 
on the farm because he did not have to and he loved manual 
work ,  which Nick did not .  Nick loved his father but hated 
the smell of him and once when he had to wear a suit of his 
fathers underwear that had gotten too small for his father it 
made him feel sick and he took it off and put it under two 
stones in the creek and said that he had lost it .  He had told 
his father how it was when his father had made him put it on 
but his father had said it was freshly washed .  It had been ,  
too .  When Nick had asked him to smell of it his father 
sniffed at it indignantly and said that it was clean and fresh .  
When Nick came home from fishing without it and said he 
lost it he was whipped for lying .  

Afterwards he had sat inside the woodshed with the door 
open ,  his shotgun loaded and cocked ,  looking across at his 



FATHERS AND SONS 469 

fcther sitting on the screen porch reading the paper ,  and 
thought ,  I can blow him to hell .  I can kill him .  Finally he 
felt his anger go out of him and he felt a little sick about it 
being the gun that his father had given him .  Then he had 
gone to the Indian camp ,  walking there in the dark ,  to get rid 
of the smell .  There was only one person in his family that he 
liked the smell of ;  one sister .  All the others he avoided all 
contact with .  That sense blunted when he started to smoke .  
It was a good thing .  It was good for a bird dog but it did not 
help a man .  

What was it like ,  Papa ,  when you were a little boy and 
used to hunt with the Indians ?  

I dont know ,  Nick was startled .  He had not even noticed 
the boy was awake .  He looked at him sitting beside him on 
the seat .  He had felt quite alone but this boy had been with 
him .  He wondered for how long .  We used to go all day to 
hunt black squirrels /  he said .  My father only gave me 
three shells a day because he said that would teach me 
to hunt and it wasnt good for a boy to go banging around .  
I went with a boy named Billy Gilby and his sister Trudy .  
We used to go out nearly every day all one summer .  

Those are funny names for Indians .  

Yes ,  arent they ,  Nick said .  

But tell me what they were like .  

They were Ojibways ,  Nick said .  And they were very 
nice .  

But what were they like to be with ?  

Its hard to say ,  Nick Adams said .  Could you say she did 
first what no one has ever done better and mention plump 
brown legs ,  flat belly ,  hard little breasts ,  well holding arms ,  
quick searching tongue ,  the flat eyes ,  the good taste of mouth ,  
then uncomfortably ,  tightly ,  sweetly ,  moistly ,  lovely ,  tightly ,  
achingly ,  fully ,  finally ,  unendingly ,  never - endingly ,  never - to -  
endingly ,  suddenly ended ,  the great bird flown like an owl in 
the twilight ,  only in daylight in tfe woods and hemlock 
needles stuck against your belly .  So that when you go in a 



470 FATHERS AND SONS 

place where Indians have lived you smell them gone and  ?  \  \  
the empty pain killer bottles and the flies that buzz do not kill 
the sweetgrass smell ,  the smoke smell and that other like a 
fresh cased marten skin .  Nor any jokes about them nor old 
squaws take that away .  Nor the sick sweet smell they get to 
have .  Nor what they did finally .  It wasnt how they ended .  
They all ended the same .  Long time ago good .  Now no 
good .  

And about the other .  When you have shot one bird flying 
you have shot all birds flying .  They are all different and they 
fly in different ways but the sensation is the same and the 
last one is as good as the first .  He could thank his father for 
that .  

You might not like them /  Nick said to the boy .  But I 
think you would .  

And my grandfather lived with them too when he was a 
boy ,  didnt he ?  

Yes .  When I asked him what they were like he said that 
he had many friends among them .  

Will I ever live with them ?  

I dont know ,  Nick said .  Thats up to you .  

How old will I be when I get a shotgun and can hunt by 
myself ?  

Twelve years old if I see you are careful .  

I wish I was twelve now .  

You will be ,  soon enough .  

What was my grandfather like ?  I cant remember him 
except that he gave me an air rifle and an American flag 
when I came over from France that time .  What was he like ?  

Hes hard to describe .  He was a great hunter and fisher -  
man and he had wonderful eyes .  

Was he greater than you ?  

He was a much better shot and his father was a great wing 
shot too .  

Til be* he wasnt be . ter than you .  5 

Oh ,  yes he was .  He shot very quickly and beautifully .  Id 



FATHERS AND SONS 471 

rather see him shoot than any man I ever knew .  He was 
always very disappointed in the way I shot .  

Why do we never go to pray at the tomb of my grand -  
father ?  

We live in a different part of the country .  Its a long way 
from here .  

In France that wouldnt make any difference .  In France 
wed go .  I think I ought to go to pray at the tomb of my 
grandfather .  

Some time well go .  

I hope we wont live somewhere so that I can never go to 
pray at your tomb when you are dead .  

Well have to arrange it .  

Dont you think we might all be buried at a convenient 
place ?  We could all be buried in France .  That would be 
fine .  

I dont want to be buried in France ,  Nick said .  

Well ,  then ,  well have to get some convenient place in 
America .  Couldnt we all be buried out at the ranch ?  

Thats an idea .  

Then I could stop and pray at the tomb of my grand -  
father on the way to the ranch .  

Youre awfully practical .  

Well ,  I dont feel good never to have even visited the tomb 
of my grandfather .  

Well have to go /  Nick said .  I can see well have to go /  

A FAREWELL TO ARMS 



BOOK !  



CHAPTER I 

In the late summer of that year we lived in a house 
in a village that looked across the river and the plain to 
the mountains .  In the bed of the river there were peb -  
bles and boulders ,  dry and white in the sun ,  and the 
water was clear and swiftly moving and blue in the 
channels .  Troops went by the house and down the road 
and the dust they raised powdered the leaves of the 
trees .  The trunks of the trees too were dusty and the 
leaves fell early that year and we saw the troops march -  
ing along the road and the dust rising and leaves ,  stirred 
by the breeze ,  falling and the soldiers marching and 
afterward the road bare and white except for the leaves .  

The plain was rich with crops ;  there were many 
orchards of fruit trees and beyond the plain the moun -  
tains were brown and bare .  There was fighting in the 
mountains and at night we could see the flashes from 
the artillery .  In the dark it was like summer lightning ,  
but the nights were cool and there was not the feeling 
of a storm coming .  

Sometimes in the dark we heard the troops marching 
under the window and guns going past pulled by motor -  
tractors .  There was much traffic at night and many 
mules on the roads with boxes of ammunition on each 
side of their pack - saddles and gray motor - trucks that 
carried men ,  and other trucks with loads covered with 
canvas that moved slower in the traffic .  There were big 
guns too that passed in the day drawn by tractors ,  the 
long barrels of the guns covered with green branches 
and green leafy branches and vines laid over the trac -  
tors .  To the north we could look across a valley and see 

3 



4 A FAREWELL TO ARMS 

a forest of chestnut trees and behind it another moun -  
tain on this side of the river .  There was fighting for 
that mountain too ,  but it was not successful ,  and in the 
fall when the rains came the leaves all fell from the 
chestnut trees and the branches were bare and the trunks 
black with rain .  The vineyards were thin and bare -  
branched too and all the country wet and brown and 
dead with the autumn .  There were mists over the river 
and clouds on the mountain and the trucks splashed 
mud on the road and the troops were muddy and wet 
in their capes ;  their rifles were wet and under their 
capes the two leather cartridge - boxes on the front of 
the belts ,  gray leather boxes heavy with the packs of 
clips of thin ,  long 6 . 5 mm .  cartridges ,  bulged forward 
under the capes so that the men ,  passing on the road ,  
marched as though they were six months gone with 
child .  

There were small gray motor - cars that passed going 
very fast  ;  usually there was an officer on the seat with 
the driver and more officers in the back seat .  They 
splashed more mud than the camions even and if one of 
the officers in the back was very small and sitting be -  
tween two generals ,  he himself so small that you could 
not see his face but only the top of his cap and his nar -  
row back ,  and if the car went especially fast it waj 
probably the King .  He lived in Udine and came out in 
this way nearly every day to see how things were going ,  
and things went very badly .  

At the start of the winter came the permanent rain 
and with the rain came the cholera .  But it was checked 
and in the end only seven thousand died of it in the 
army ,  



CHAPTER II 

The next year there were many victories .  The 
mountain that was beyond the valley and the hillside 
where the chestnut forest grew was captured and there 
were victories beyond the plain on the plateau to the 
south and we crossed the river in August and lived in a 
house in Gorizia that had a fountain and many thick 
shady trees in a walled garden and a wistaria vine 
purple on the side of the house .  Now the fighting was 
in the next mountains beyond and was not a mile away .  
The town was very nice and our house was very fine .  
The river ran behind us and the town had been cap -  
tured very handsomely but the mountains beyond it 
could not be taken and I was very glad the Austrians 
seemed to want to come back to the town some time ,  i 
the war should end ,  because they did not bombard it to 
destroy it but only a little in a military way .  People 
lived on in it and there were hospitals and cafes and 
artillery up side streets and two bawdy houses ,  one for 
troops and one for officers ,  and with the end of the 
summer ,  the cool nights ,  the fighting in the mountains 
beyond the town ,  the shell - marked iron of the railway 
bridge ,  the smashed tunnel by the river where the fight -  
ing had been ,  the trees around the square and the long -  
avenue of trees that led to the square  ;  these with there 
being girls in the town ,  the King passing in his motor 
car ,  sometimes now seeing his face and little long 
necked body and gray beard like a goats chin tuft  ;  all 
these with the sudden interiors of houses that had lost a 
wall through shelling ,  with plaster and rubble in their 
gardens and sometimes in the street ,  and the whole thing 

5 



6 A FAREWELL TO ARMS 

 !  
going well on the Carso made the fall very different 

from the last fall when we had been in the country .  

The war was changed too .  

The forest of oak trees on the mountain beyond the 
town was gone .  The forest had been green in the 
summer when we had come into the town but now there 
were the stumps and the broken trunks and the ground 
torn up ,  and one day at the end of the fall when I was 
out where the oak forest had been I saw a cloud com -  
ing over the mountain .  It came very fast and the sun 
went a dull yellow and then everything was gray and 
the sky was covered and the cloud came on down the 
mountain and suddenly we were in it and it was snow .  
The snow slanted across the wind ,  the bare ground was 
covered ,  the stumps of trees projected ,  there was snow 
on the guns and there were paths in the snow going 
back to the latrines behind trenches .  

Later ,  below in the town ,  I watched the snow falling ,  
looking out of the window of the bawdy house ,  the 
house for officers ,  where I sat with a friend and two 
glasses drinking a bottle of Asti ,  and ,  looking out at the 
snow falling slowly and heavily ,  we knew it was all 
over for that year .  Up the river the mountains had not 
been taken  ;  none of the mountains beyond the river had 
been taken .  That was all left for next year .  My friend 
saw the priest from our mess going by in the street ,  
walking carefully in the slush ,  and pounded on the win -  
dow to attract his attention .  The priest looked up .  He 
saw us and smiled .  My friend motioned for him to 
come in .  The priest shook his head and went on .  That 
night in the mess after the spaghetti course ,  which 
every one ate very quickly and seriously ,  lifting the 
spaghetti on the fork until the loose strands hung clear 
then lowering it into the mouth ,  or else using a con -  



A FAREWELL TO ARMS 7 

tinuous lift and sucking into the mouth ,  helping our -  
selves to wine from the grass - covered gallon flask ;  it 
swung in a metal cradle and you pulled the neck of the 
flask down with the forefinger and the wine ,  elf ar red ,  
tannic and lovely ,  poured out into the glass held with 
the same hand ;  after this course ,  the captain com -  
menced picking on the priest .  

The priest was young and blushed easily and wore a 
uniform like the rest of us but with a cross in dark 
red velvet above the left breast pocket of his gray 
tunic .  The captain spoke pidgin Italian for my doubt -  
ful benefit ,  in order that I might understand perfectly ,  
that nothing should be lost .  

 " Priest to - day with girls ,  "  the captain said looking at 
the priest and at me .  The priest smiled and blushed and 
shook his head .  This captain baited him often .  

 " Not true ?  "  asked the captain .   " To - day I see priest 
with girls .  "  

 " No ,  "  said the priest .  The other officers were 
amused at the baiting .  

 " Priest not with girls ,  "  went on the captain .   " Priest 
never with girls ,  "  he explained to me .  He took my 
glass and filled it ,  looking at my eyes all the time ,  but 
not losing sight of the priest .  

 " Priest every night five against one .  "  Every one at 
the table laughed .   " You understand  ?  Priest every night 
five against one .  "  He made a gesture and laughed 
loudly .  The priest accepted it as a joke .  

 " The Pope wants the Austrians to win the war ,  "  the 
major said .   " He loves Franz Joseph .  Thats where 
the money comes from .  I am an atheist .  "  

 " Did you ever read the Black Pig  ?  "  asked the lieu -  
tenant .   " I will get you a copy .  It was that which 
shook my faith .  "  



8 A FAREWELL TO ARMS 

 " It is a filthy and vile book ,  "  said the priest .   " You 
do not really like it .  "  

 " It is very valuable ,  "  said the lieutenant .   " It tells you 
about those priests .  You will like it ,  "  he said to me .  I 
smiled at the priest and he smiled back across the candle -  
light .   " Dont you read it ,  "  he said .  

 " I will get it for you ,  "  said the lieutenant .  

 " All thinking men are atheists ,  "  the major said .   " I 
do not believe in the Free Masons however .  "  

 " I believe in the Free Masons ,  "  the lieutenant said .  
 " It is a noble organization .  "  Some one came in and 
as the door opened I could see the snow falling .  

 " There will be no more offensive now that the snow 
has come ,  "  I said .  

 " Certainly not ,  "  said the major .   " You should go on 
leave .  You should go to Rome ,  Naples ,  Sicily  "  

 " He should visit Amalfi ,  "  said the lieutenant  " I 
will write you cards to my family in Amalfi .  They will 
love you like a son .  "  

 " He should go to Palermo .  "  

 " He ought to go to Capri .  "  

 " I would like you to see Abruzzi and visit my family 
at Capracotta ,  "  said the priest .  

 " Listen to him talk about the Abruzzi .  Theres more 
snow there than here .  He doesnt want to see peasants .  
Let him go to centres of culture and civilization .  "  

 " He should have fine girls .  I will give you the ad -  
dresses of places in Naples .  Beautiful young girls  ac -  
companied by their mothers .  Ha  !  Ha 1 Ha  !  "  The cap -  
tain spread his hand open ,  the thumb up and fingers 
outspread as when you make shadow pictures .  There 
was a shadow from his hand on the wall .  He spoke 
again in pidgin Italian .   " You go away like this ,  "  he 



A FAREWELL TO ARMS 9 

pointed to the thumb ,   " and come back like this/ he 
touched the little finger .  Every one laughed .  

 " Look ,  "  said the captain .  He spread the hand again .  
Again the candle - light made its shadows on the wall .  
He started with the upright thumb and named in their 
order the thumb and four ringers ,   " soto - tenente (the 
thumb) ,  tenente (first finger) ,  capitano (next finger) ,  
maggiore (next to the little finger) ,  and tenente - colo -  
nello (the little finger) .  You go away soto - tenente !  
You come back soto - colonello  !  "  They all laughed .  The 
captain was having a great success with finger games .  
He looked at the priest and shouted ,   " Every night 
priest five against one  !  "  They all laughed again .  

 " You must go on leave at once ,  "  the major said .  

 " I would like to go with you and show you things ,  "  
the lieutenant said .  

 " When you come back bring a phonograph .  "  

 " Bring good opera disks .  "  

 " Bring Caruso .  "  

 " Dont bring Caruso .  He bellows .  "  

 " Dont you wish you could bellow like him ?  "  

 " He bellows .  I say he bellows  !  "  

 " I would like you to go to Abruzzi ,  "  the priest said .  
The others were shouting .   " There is good hunting .  
You would like the people and though it is cold it is 
clear and dry .  You could stay with my family .  My 
father is a famous hunter .  "  

 " Come on ,  "  said the captain .   " We go whorehouse be -  
fore it shuts .  "  

 " Good night ,  "  I said to the priest .  

 " Good night ,  "  he said .  



CHAPTER III 

When I came back to the front we still lived in that 
town .  There were many more guns in the country 
around and the spring had come .  The fields were green 
and there were small green shoots on the vines ,  the trees 
along the road had small leaves and a breeze came from 
the sea .  I saw the town with the hill and the old castle 
above it in a cup in the hills with the mountains beyond ,  
brown mountains with a little green on their slopes .  In 
the town there were more guns ,  there were some new 
hospitals ,  you met British men and sometimes women ,  
on the street ,  and a few more houses had been hit by 
shell fire .  It was warm and like the spring and I 
walked down the alleyway of trees ,  warmed from the 
sun on the wall ,  and found we still lived in the same 
house and that it all looked the same as when I had left 
it .  The door was open ,  there was a soldier sitting on a 
bench outside in the sun ,  an ambulance was waiting by 
the side door and inside the door ,  as I went in ,  there 
was the smell of marble floors and hospital .  It was all 
as I had left it except that now it was spring .  I looked 
in the door of the big room and saw the major sitting 
at his desk ,  the window open and the sunlight coming 
into the room .  He did not see me and I did not know 
whether to go in and report or go upstairs first and 
clean up .  I decided to go on upstairs .  

The room I shared with the lieutenant Rinaldi looked 
out on the courtyard .  The window was open ,  my bed 
was made up with blankets and my things hung on the 
 . wall ,  the gas mask in an oblong tin can ,  the steel helmet 
on the same peg .  At the foot of the bed was my flat 



A FAREWELL TO ARMS n 

trunk ,  and my winter boots ,  the leather shiny with oil ,  
were on the trunk .  My Austrian snipers rifle with its 
blued octagon barrel and the lovely dark walnut ,  cheek -  
fitted ,  schutzen stock ,  hung over the two beds .  The 
telescope that fitted it was ,  I remembered ,  locked in the 
trunk .  The lieutenant ,  Rinaldi ,  lay asleep on the other 
bed .  He woke when he heard me in the room and sat 
up .  

 " Ciaou !  "  he said .   " What kind of time did you 
have ?  "  

 " Magnificent .  "  

We shook hands and he put his arm around my neck 
and kissed me .  

 " Oughf ,  "  I said .  

 " Youre dirty ,  "  he said .   " You ought to wash .  
Where did you go and what did you do  ?  Tell me every -  
thing at once .  "  

 " I went everywhere .  Milan ,  Florence ,  Rome ,  Naples ,  
Villa San Giovanni ,  Messina ,  Taormina  "  

 " You talk like a time - table .  Did you have any beau -  
tiful adventures ?  "  

 " Yes .  "  

 " Where ?  "  

 " Milano ,  Firenze ,  Roma ,  Napoli  "  

 " Thats enough .  Tell me really what was the best .  "  

 " In Milano .  "  

 " That was because it was first .  Where did you meet 
her  ?  In the Cova  ?  Where did you go  ?  How did you 
feel ?  Tell me everything at once .  Did you stay all 
night ?  "  

 " Yes .  "  

 " Thats nothing .  Here now we have beautiful girls .  
New girls never been to the front before .  "  

 " Wonderful .  "  



12 A FAREWELL TO ARMS 

 " You dont believe me  ?  We will go now this after -  
noon and see .  And in the town we have beautiful 
English girls .  I am now in love with Miss Barkley .  
I will take you to call .  I will probably marry Miss 
Barkley .  "  

 " I have to get washed and report .  Doesnt anybody 
work now ?  "  

 " Since you are gone we have nothing but frostbites ,  
chilblains ,  jaundice ,  gonorrhea ,  self - inflicted wounds ,  
pneumonia and hard and soft chancres .  Every week 
some one gets wounded by rock fragments .  There are 
a few real wounded .  Next week the war starts again .  
Perhaps it starts again .  They say so .  Do you think I 
would do right to marry Miss Barkley  after the war 
of course ?  "  

 " Absolutely ,  "  I said and poured the basin full of 
water .  

 " To - night you will tell me everything ,  "  said Rinaldi .  
 " Now I must go back to sleep to be fresh and beautiful 
for Miss Barkley .  "  

I took off my tunic and shirt and washed in the cold 
water in the basin .  While I rubbed myself with a towel 
I looked around the room and out the window and at 
Rinaldi lying with his eyes closed on the bed .  He was 
good - looking ,  was my age ,  and he came from Amalfi .  
He loved being a surgeon and we were great friends .  
While I was looking at him he opened his eyes .  

 " Have you any money  ?   "  

 " Yes .  "  

 " Loan me fifty lire .  "  

I dried my hands and took out my pocket - book from 
the inside of my tunic hanging on the wall .  Rinaldi 
took the note ,  folded it without rising from the bed and 
slid it in his breeches pocket .  He smiled ,   " I must make 



A FAREWELL TO ARMS 13 

on Miss Barkley the impression of a man of sufficient 
wealth .  You are my great and good friend and finan -  
cial protector .  "  

 " Go to hell/ I said .  

That night at the mess I sat next to the priest and he 
was disappointed and suddenly hurt that I had not gone 
to the Abruzzi .  He had written to his father that I was 
coming and they had made preparations .  I myself felt 
as badly as he did and could not understand why I had 
not gone .  It was what I had wanted to do and I tried 
to explain how one thing had led to another and finally 
he saw it and understood that I had really wanted to go 
and it was almost all right .  I had drunk much wine 
and afterward coffee and Strega and I explained ,  wine -  
fully ,  how we did not do the things we wanted to do  ;  
we never did such things .  

We two were talking while the others argued .  I had 
wanted to go to Abruzzi .  I had gone to no place where 
the roads were frozen and hard as iron ,  where it was 
clear cold and dry and the snow was dry and powdery 
and hare - tracks in the snow and the peasants took off 
their hats and called you Lord and there was good hunt -  
ing .  I had gone to no such place but to the smoke of 
cafes and nights when the room whirled and you needed 
to look at the wall to make it stop ,  nights in bed ,  drunk ,  
when you knew that that was all there was ,  and the 
strange excitement of waking and not knowing who it 
was with you ,  and the world all unreal in the dark and 
so exciting that you must resume again unknowing and 
not caring in the night ,  sure that this was all and all 
and all and not caring .  Suddenly to care very much 
and to sleep to wake with it sometimes morning and all 
that had been there gone and everything sharp and hard 
and clear and sometimes a dispute about the cost .  



i 4 A FAREWELL TO ARMS 

Sometimes still pleasant and fond and warm and break -  
fast and lunch .  Sometimes all niceness gone and glad 
to get out on the street but always another day starting 
and then another night I tried to tell about the night 
and the difference between the night and the day and 
how the night was better unless the day was very clean 
and cold and I could not tell it  ;  as I cannot tell it now .  
But if you have had it you know .  He had not had it 
but he understood that I had really wanted to go to the 
Abruzzi but had not gone and we were still friends ,  
with many tastes alike ,  but with the difference between 
us .  He had always known what I did not know and 
what ,  when I learned it ,  I was always able to forget .  
But I did not know that then ,  although I learned it later .  
In the meantime we were all at the mess ,  the meal was 
finished ,  and the argument went on .  We two stopped 
talking and the captain shouted ,   " Priest not happy .  
Priest not happy without girls .  "  

 " I am happy ,  "  said the priest .  

 " Priest not happy .  Priest wants Austrians to win 
the war ,  "  the captain said .  The others listened .  The 
priest shook his head .  

 " No ,  "  he said .  

 " Priest wants us never to attack .  Dont you want us 
never to attack ?  "  

 " No .  If there is a war I suppose we must attack .  "  

 " Must attack .  Shall attack  !  "  

The priest nodded .  

 " Leave him alone ,  "  the major said .   " Hes all right .  "  

 " He cant do anything about it anyway ,  "  the captain 
said .  We all got up and left the table .  



CHAPTER IV 

The battery in the next garden woke me in the 
morning and I saw the sun coming through the window 
and got out of the bed .  I went to the window and 
looked out .  The gravel paths were moist and the grass 
was wet with dew .  The battery fired twice and the 
air came each time like a blow and shook the window 
and made the front of my pajamas flap .  I could not see 
the guns but they were evidently firing directly over us .  
It was a nuisance to have them there but it was a com -  
fort that they were no bigger .  As I looked out at the 
garden I heard a motor truck starting on the road .  I 
dressed ,  went downstairs ,  had some coffee in the kitchen 
and went out to the garage .  

Ten cars were lined up side by side under the long 
shed .  They were top - heavy ,  blunt - nosed ambulances ,  
painted gray and built like moving - vans .  The mechan -  
ics were working on one out in the yard .  Three others 
were up in the mountains at dressing - stations .  

 " Do they ever shell that battery ?  "  I asked one of the 
mechanics .  

 " No ,  Signor Tenente .  It is protected by the little 
hill .  "  

 " Hows everything ?  "  

 " Not so bad .  This machine is no good but the others 
march .  "  He stopped working and smiled .   " Were you 
on permission ?  "  

 " Yes .  "  

He wiped his hands on his jumper and grinned .  
 " You have a good time ?  "  The others all grinned too .  

15 



16 A FAREWELL TO ARMS 

 " Fine ,  "  I said .   " Whats the matter with this ma -  
chine ?  "  

 " Its no good .  One thing after another .  "  

 " Whats the matter now ?  "  

 " New rings .  "  

I left them working ,  the car looking disgraced and 
empty with the engine open and parts spread on the 
work bench ,  and went in under the shed and looked at 
each of the cars .  They were moderately clean ,  a few 
freshly washed ,  the others dusty .  I looked at the tires 
carefully ,  looking for cuts or stone bruises .  Every -  
thing seemed in good condition .  It evidently made no 
difference whether I was there to look after things or 
not .  I had imagined that the condition of the cars ,  
whether or not things were obtainable ,  the smooth func -  
tioning of the business of removing wounded and sick 
from the dressing stations ,  hauling them back from the 
mountains to the clearing station and then distributing 
them to the hospitals named on their papers ,  depended 
to a considerable extent on myself .  Evidently it did 
not matter whether I was there or not .  

 " Has there been any trouble getting parts ?  "  I asked 
the sergeant mechanic .  

 " No ,  Signor Tenente .  "  

 " Where is the gasoline park now ?  "  

 " At the same place .  "  

 " Good ,  "  I said and went back to the house and 
drank another bowl of coffee at the mess table .  The 
coffee was a pale gray and sweet with condensed milk .  
Outside the window it was a lovely spring morning .  
There was that beginning of a feeling of dryness in the 
nose that meant the day would be hot later on .  That 
day I visited the posts in the mountains and was back 
in town late in the afternoon .  



A FAREWELL TO ARMS 17 

The whole thing seemed to run better while I was 
away .  The offensive was going to start again I heard .  
The division for which we worked were to attack at a 
place up the river and the major told me that I would see 
about the posts for during the attack .  The attack would 
cross the river up above the narrow gorge and spread 
up the hillside .  The posts for the cars would have to 
be as near the river as they could get and keep covered .  
They would ,  of course ,  be selected by the infantry but 
we were supposed to work it out .  It was one of those 
things that gave you a false feeling of soldiering .  

I was very dusty and dirty and went up to my room 
to wash .  Rinaldi was sitting on the bed with a copy 
of Hugos English grammar .  He was dressed ,  wore 
his black boots ,  and his hair shone .  

 " Splendid/ he said when he saw me .   " You will 
come with me to see Miss Barkley .   ,  ,  

 " No .  "  

 " Yes .  You will please come and make me a good im -  
pression on her .  "  

 " All right .  Wait till I get cleaned up .  "  

 " Wash up and come as you are .  "  

I washed ,  brushed my hair and we started .  

 " Wait a minute ,  "  Rinaldi said .   " Perhaps we should 
have a drink .  "  He opened his trunk and took out a 
bottle .  

 " Not Strega ,  "  I said .  

 " No .  Grappa .  "  

 " All right "  

He poured two glasses and we touched them ,  first 
fingers extended .  The grappa was very strong .  

 " Another ?  "  

 " All right ,  "  I said .  We drank the second grappa ,  
Rinaldi put away the bottle and we went down the 



18 A FAREWELL TO ARMS 

stairs .  It was hot walking through the town but the sun 
was starting to go down and it was very pleasant .  The 
British hospital was a big villa built by Germans before 
the war .  Miss Barkley was in the garden .  Another 
nurse was with her .  We saw their white uniforms 
through the trees and walked toward them .  Rinaldi 
saluted .  I saluted too but more moderately .   

 " How do you do ?  "  Miss Barkley said .   " Youre not 
an Italian ,  are you  ?  "  

 " Oh ,  no .  "  

Rinaldi was talking with the other nurse .  They were 
laughing .  

 " What an odd thing  to be in the Italian army .  "  

 " Its not really the army .  Its only the ambulance .  "  

 " Its very odd though .  Why did you do it ?  "  

 " I dont know ,  "  I said .   " There isnt always an ex -  
planation for everything .  "  

 " Oh ,  isnt there ?  I was brought up to think there 
was .  "  

 " Thats awfully nice .  "  

 " Do we have to go on and talk this way ?  "  

 " No ,  "  I said .  

 " Thats a relief .  Isnt it ?  "  

 " What is the stick ?  "  I asked .  Miss Barkley was 
quite tall .  She wore what seemed to me to be a nurses 
uniform ,  was blonde and had a tawny skin and gray 
eyes .  I thought she was very beautiful .  She was carry -  
ing a thin rattan stick like a toy riding - crop ,  bound in 
leather .  

 " It belonged to a boy who was killed last year .  "  

 " Im awfully sorry .  "  

 " He was a very nice boy .  He was going to marry 
me and he was killed in the Somme .  "  

 " It was a ghastly show .  "  



A FAREWELL TO ARMS 19 

 " Were you there  ?  "  

 " No .  "   "  

 " Ive heard about it ,  "  she said .   " Theres not really 
any war of that sort down here .  They sent me the little 
stick .  His mother sent it to me .  They returned it with 
his things . * 

 " Had you been engaged long ?  "  

 " Eight years .  We grew up together .  "  

 " And why didnt you marry ?  "  

 " I dont know ,  "  she said .   " I was a fool not to .  I 
could have given him that anyway .  But I thought it 
would be bad for him .  "  

 " I see .  "  

 " Have you ever loved any one  ?  "  

 " No ,  "  I said 

We sat down on a bench and I looked at her .  

 " You have beautiful hair ,  "  I said .  

 " Do you like it ?  "  

 " Very much .  "  

 " I was going to cut it all off when he died .  "  

 " No .  "  

 " I wanted to do something for him .  You see I 
didnt care about the other thing and he could have had 
it all .  He could have had anything he wanted if I 
would have known .  I would have married him or any -  
thing .  I know all about it now .  But then he wanted to 
go to war and I didnt know .  "  

I did not say anything .  

 " I didnt know about anything then .  I thought it 
would be worse for him .  I thought perhaps he couldnt 
stand it and then of course he was killed and that was 
the end of it .  "  

 " I dont know .  "  

 " Oh ,  yes ,  "  she said .   " Thats the end of it .  "  



20 A FAREWELL TO ARMS 

We looked at Rinaldi talking with the other nurse .  

 " What is her name ?  "  

 " Ferguson .  Helen Ferguson .  Your friend is a doc -  
tor ,  isnt he  ?  "  

 " Yes .  Hes very good .  "  

 " Thats splendid .  You rarely find any one any good 
this close to the front .  This is close to the front ,  isnt 
it ?  "  

 " Quite .  "  

 " Its a silly front ,  "  she said .   " But its very beauti -  
ful .  Are they going to have an offensive ?  "  

 " Yes .  "  

 " Then well have to work .  Theres no work now .  "  

 " Have you done nursing long ?  "  

 " Since the end of fifteen .  I started when he did .  I 
remember having a silly idea he might come to the 
hospital where I was .  With a sabre cut ,  I suppose ,  and a 
bandage around his head .  Or shot through the shoul -  
der .  Something picturesque .  "  

 " This is the picturesque front ,  "  I said .  

 " Yes ,  "  she said .   " People cant realize what France is 
like .  If they did ,  it couldnt all go on .  He didnt have 
a sabre cut .  They blew him all to bits .  "  

I didnt say anything .  

 " Do you suppose it will always go on ?  "  

 " No .  "  

 " Whats to stop it ?  "  

 " It will crack somewhere .  "  

 " Well crack .  Well crack in France .  They cant go 
on doing things like the Somme and not crack .  "  

 " They wont crack here ,  "  I said .  

 " You think not ?  "  

 " No .  They did very well last summer .  "  

 " They may crack ,  "  she said .   " Anybody may crack .  "  



A FAREWELL TO ARMS 21 

The Germans too .  "  

 " No ,  "  she said .   " I think not .  "  

We went over toward Rinaldi and Miss Ferguson .  

 " You love Italy ?  "  Rinaldi asked Miss Ferguson in 
English .  

 " Quite well .  "  

 " No understand ,  "  Rinaldi shook his head .  

 " Abbastanza bene ,  "  I translated .  He shook his head .  

 " That is not good .  You love England ?  "  

 " Not too well .  Im Scotch ,  you see .  "  

Rinaldi looked at me blankly .  

 " Shes Scotch ,  so she loves Scotland better than Eng -  
land ,  "  I said in Italian .  

 " But Scotland is England .  "  

I translated this for Miss Ferguson .  

 " Pas encore ,  "  said Miss Ferguson .  

 " Not really ?  "  

 " Never .  We do not like the English .  "  

 " Not like the English ?  Not like Miss Barkley ?  "  

 " Oh ,  thats different .  You mustnt take everything 
so literally .  "  

After a while we said good - night and left .  Walking 
home Rinaldi said ,   " Miss Barkley prefers you to me .  
That is very clear .  But the little Scotch one is very 
nice .  "  

 " Very ,  "  I said .  I had not noticed her .   " You like 
her ?  "  

 " No ,  "  said Rinaldi .  



CHAPTER V 

The next afternoon I went to call on Miss Barkley 
again .  She was not in the garden and I went to the 
side door of the villa where the ambulances drove up .  
Inside I saw the head nurse ,  who said Miss Barkley was 
on duty   " theres a war on ,  you know .  "  

I said I knew .  

 " Youre the American in the Italian army ?  "  she 
asked .  

 " Yes ,  maam .  "  

 " How did you happen to do that ?  Why didnt you 
join up with us  ?  "  

 " I dont know ,  "  I said .   " Could I join now ?  "  

 " Im afraid not now .  Tell me .  Why did you join up 
with the Italians ?  "  

 " I was in Italy ,  "  I said ,   " and I spoke Italian .  "  

 " Oh ,  "  she said .   " Im learning it Its a beautiful 
language .  "  

 " Somebody said you should be able to learn it in two 
weeks .  "  

 " Oh ,  Ill not learn it in two weeks .  Ive studied it for 
months now .  You may come and see her after seven 
oclock if you wish .  Shell be off then .  But dont 
bring a lot of Italians .  "  

 " Not even for the beautiful language ?  "  

 " No .  Nor for the beautiful uniforms .  "  

 " Good evening ,  "  I said .  

 " A rivederci ,  Tenente .  "  

 " A rivederla .  "  I saluted and went out .  It was im -  
possible to salute foreigners as an Italian ,  without em -  



A FAREWELL TO ARMS 23 

barrassment .  The Italian salute never seemed made for 
export .  

The day had been hot .  I had been up the river to the 
bridgehead at Plava .  It was there that the offensive 
was to begin .  It had been impossible to advance on the 
far side the year before because there was only one road 
leading down from the pass to the pontoon bridge and it 
was under machine - gun and shell fire for nearly a mile .  
It was not wide enough either to carry all the trans -  
port for an offensive and the Austrians could make a 
shambles out of it .  But the Italians had crossed and 
spread out a little way on the far side to hold about a 
mile and a half on the Austrian side of the river .  It 
was a nasty place and the Austrians should not have let 
them hold it .  I suppose it was mutual tolerance because 
the Austrians still kept a bridgehead further down the 
river .  The Austrian trenches were above on the hillside 
only a few yards from the Italian lines .  There had been 
a little town but it was all rubble .  There was what was 
left of a railway station and a smashed permanent 
bridge that could not be repaired and used because it 
was in plain sight .  

I went along the narrow road down toward the river ,  
left the car at the dressing station under the hill ,  
crossed the pontoon bridge ,  which was protected by 
a shoulder of the mountain ,  and went through the 
trenches in the smashed - down town and along the edge 
of the slope .  Everybody was in the dugouts .  There 
were racks of rockets standing to be touched off to call 
for help from the artillery or to signal with if the tele -  
phone  " wires were cut .  It was quiet ,  hot and dirty .  I 
looked across the wire at the Austrian lines .  Nobody 
was in sight .  I had a drink with a captain that I knew 
in one of the dugouts and went back across the bridge .  



24 A FAREWELL TO ARMS 

A new wide road was being finished that would go 
over the mountain and zig - zag down to the bridge .  
When this road was finished the offensive would start .  
It came down through the forest in sharp turns .  The 
system was to bring everything down the new road and 
take the empty trucks ,  carts and loaded ambulances and 
all returning traffic up the old narrow road .  The dress -  
ing station was on the Austrian side of the river under 
the edge of the hill and stretcher - bearers would bring 
the wounded back across the pontoon bridge .  It would 
be the same when the offensive started .  As far as I 
could make out the last mile or so of the new road 
where it started to level out would be able to be shelled 
steadily by the Austrians .  It looked as though it might 
be a mess .  But I found a place where the cars would 
be sheltered after they had passed that last bad - looking 
bit and could wait for the wounded to be brought across 
the pontoon bridge .  I would have liked to drive over 
the new road but it was not yet finished .  It looked wide 
and well made with a good grade and the turns looked 
very impressive where you could see them through 
openings in the forest on the mountain side .  The cars 
would be all right with their good metal - to - metal 
brakes and anyway ,  coming down ,  they would not be 
loaded .  I drove back up the narrow road .  

Two carabinieri held the car up .  A shell had fallen 
and while we waited three others fell up the road .  They 
were seventy - sevens and came with a whishing rush 
of air ,  a hard bright burst and flash and then gray smoke 
that blew across the road .  The carabinieri waved us to 
go on .  Passing where the shells had landed I avoided 
the small broken places and smelled the high explosive 
and the smell of blasted clay and stone and freshly 
shattered flint .  I drove back to Gorizia and our villa 



A FAREWELL TO ARMS 25 

and ,  as I said ,  went to call on Miss Barkley ,  who was on 
duty .  

At dinner I ate very quickly and left for the villa 
where the British had their hospital .  It was really very 
large and beautiful and there were fine trees in the 
grounds .  Miss Barkley was sitting on a bench in the 
garden .  Miss Ferguson was with her .  They seemed 
glad to see me and in a little while Miss Ferguson 
excused herself and went away .  

 " FU leave you two ,  "  she said .   " You get along very 
well without me .  "  

 " Dont go ,  Helen ,  "  Miss Barkley said .  

 " Fd really rather .  I must write some letters .  "  

 " Good - night ,  "  I said .  

 " Good - night ,  Mr .  Henry .  "  

 " Dont write anything that will bother the censor .  "  

 " Dont worry .  I only write about what a beautiful 
place we live in and how brave the Italians are .  "  

 " That way youll be decorated .  "  

 " That will be nice .  Good - night ,  Catherine .  "  

 " Ill see you in a little while ,  "  Miss Barkley said .  
Miss Ferguson walked away in the dark .  

 " Shes nice ,  "  I said .  

 " Oh ,  yes ,  shes very nice .  Shes a nurse .  "  

 " Arent you a nurse ?  "  

 " Oh ,  no .  Im something called a V .  A .  D .  We work 
very hard but no one trusts us .  "  

 " Why not ?  "  

 " They dont trust us when theres nothing going 
on .  When there is really work they trust us .  "  

 " What is the difference ?  "  

 " A nurse is like a doctor .  It takes a long time to 
be .  A V .  A .  D .  is a short cut .  "  
1 see .  



26 A FAREWELL TO ARMS 

 " The Italians didnt want women so near the front .  
So were all on very special behavior .  We dont go 
out .  "  

 " I can come here though .  "  

 " Oh ,  yes .  Were not cloistered .  "  

 " Lets drop the war .  "  

 " Its very hard .  Theres no place to drop it .  "  

 " Lets drop it anyway .  "  

 " All right .  "  

We looked at each other in the dark .  I thought she 
was very beautiful and I took her hand .  She let me 
take it and I held it and put my arm around under her 
arm .  

 " No ,  "  she said .  I kept my arm where it was .  

 " Why not ?  "  

 " No .  "  

 " Yes ,  "  I said .   " Please .  "  I leaned forward in the 
dark to kiss her and there was a sharp stinging flash .  
She had slapped my face hard .  Her hand had hit my 
nose and eyes ,  and tears came in my eyes from the 
reflex .  

 " Im so sorry ,  "  she said .  I felt I had a certain ad -  
vantage .  

 " You were quite right .  "  

 " Im dreadfully sorry ,  "  she said .   " I just couldnt 
stand the nurse s - evening - off aspect of it .  I didnt mean 
to hurt you .  I did hurt you ,  didnt I  ?  "  

She was looking at me in the dark .  I was angry and 
yet certain ,  seeing it all ahead like the moves in a chess 
game .  

 " You did exactly right ,  "  I said .   " I dont mind at 
all .  "  

 " Poor man .  "  

 " You see Ive been leading a sort of a funny life .  



A FAREWELL TO ARMS 27 

And I never even talk English .  And then you are so 
very beautiful .  "  I looked at her .  

 " You dont need to say a lot of nonsense .  I said I 
was sorry .  We do get along .  "  

 " Yes ,  "  I said .   " And we have gotten away from the 
war .  "  

She laughed .  It was the first time I had ever heard 
her laugh .  I watched her face .  

 " You are sweet ,  "  she said .  

 " No ,  Im not .  "  

 " Yes .  You are a dear .  Fd be glad to kiss you if 
you dont mind .  "  

I looked in her eyes and put my arm around her as I 
had before and kissed her .  I kissed her hard and held 
her tight and tried to open her lips ;  they were closed 
tight .  I was still angry and as I held her suddenly she 
shivered .  I held her close against me and could feel 
her heart beating and her lips opened and her head 
went back against my hand and then she was crying 
on my shoulder .  

 " Oh ,  darling ,  "  she said .   " You will be good to me ,  
wont you ?  "  

What the hell ,  I thought .  I stroked her hair and 
patted her shoulder .  She was crying .  

 " You will ,  wont you ?  "  She looked up at me .   " Be -  
cause were going to have a strange life .  "  

After a while I walked with her to the door of the 
villa and she went in and I walked home .  Back at the 
villa I went upstairs to the room .  Rinaldi was lying 
on his bed .  He looked at me .  

 " So you make progress with Miss Barkley ?  "  

 " We are friends .  "  

 " You have that pleasant air of a dog in heat .  "  

I did not understand the word .  



28 A FAREWELL TO ARMS 

 " Of a what ?  "  

He explained .  

 " You ,  "  I said ,   " have that pleasant air of a dog 
who "  

 " Stop it ,  "  he said .   " In a little while we would say 
insulting things .  "  He laughed .  

 " Good - night ,  "  I said .  

 " Good - night ,  little puppy .  "  

I knocked over his candle with the pillow and got 
into bed in the dark .  

Rinaldi picked up the candle ,  lit it and went on 
reading .  



CHAPTER VI 

I was away for two days at the posts .  When I got 
home it was too late and I did not see Miss Barkley 
until the next evening .  She was not in the garden and 
I had to wait in the office of the hospital until she came 
down .  There were many marble busts on painted 
wooden pillars along the walls of the room they used 
for an office .  The hall too ,  that the office opened on ,  
was lined with them .  They had the complete marble 
quality of all looking alike .  Sculpture had always 
seemed a dull business  still ,  bronzes looked like some -  
thing .  But marble busts all looked like a cemetery .  
There was one fine cemetery though  the one at Pisa .  
Genoa was the place to see the bad marbles .  This had 
been the villa of a very wealthy German and the busts 
must have cost him plenty .  I wondered who had done 
them and how much be got .  I tried to make out 
whether they were members of the family or what ;  but 
they were all uniformly classical .  You could not tell 
anything about them .  

I sat on a chair and held my cap .  We were supposed 
to wear steel helmets even in Gorizia but they were un -  
comfortable and too bloody theatrical in a town where 
the civilian inhabitants had not been evacuated .  I wore 
one when we went up to the posts and carried an Eng -  
lish gas mask .  We were just beginning to get some of 
them .  They were a real mask .  Also we were required 
to wear an automatic pistol  ;  even doctors and sanitary 
officers .  I felt it against the back of the chair .  You 



So A FAREWELL TO ARMS 

were liable to arrest if you did not have one worn in 
plain sight .  Rinaldi carried a holster stuffed with toilet 
paper .  I wore a real one and felt like a gunman until 
I practised firing it .  It was an Astra 7 . 65 caliber with 
a short barrel and it jumped so sharply when you let it 
off that there was no question of hitting anything .  I 
practised with it ,  holding below the target and trying to 
master the jerk of the ridiculous short barrel until I 
could hit within a yard of where I aimed at twenty 
paces and then the ridiculousness of carrying a pistol 
at all came over me and I soon forgot it and carried it 
flopping against the small of my back with no feeling at 
all except a vague sort of shame when I met English -  
speaking people .  I sat now in the chair and an orderly 
of some sort looked at me disapprovingly from behind 
a desk while I looked at the marble floor ,  the pillars 
with the marble busts ,  and the frescoes on the wall 
and waited for Miss Barkley .  The frescoes were not 
bad .  Any frescoes were good when they started to peel 
and flake off .  

I saw Catherine Barkley coming down the hall ,  and 
stood up .  She did not seem tall walking toward me but 
she looked very lovely .  

 " Good - evening ,  Mr .  Henry ,  "  she said .  

 " How do you do ?  "  I said .  The orderly was listening 
behind the desk .  

 " Shall we sit here or go out in the garden ?  "  

 " Lets go out .  Its much cooler .  "  

I walked behind her out into the garden ,  the orderly 
looking after us .  When we were out on the gravel drive 
she said ,   " Where have you been ?  "  

 " Ive been out on post .  "  

 " You couldnt have sent me a note ?  "  



A FAREWELL TO ARMS 31 

 " No/ I said .   " Not very well .  I thought I was com -  
ing back .  "  

 " You ought to have let me know ,  darling .   ,  ,  

We were off the driveway ,  walking under the trees .  
I took her hands ,  then stopped and kissed her .  

 " Isnt there anywhere we can go ?  "  

 " No ,  "  she said .   " We have to just walk here .  Youve 
been away a long time .  "  

 " This is the third day .  But Im back now .  "  

She looked at me ,   " And you do love me ?  "  

 " Yes .  "  

 " You did say you loved me ,  didnt you ?  "  

 " Yes ,  "  I lied .   " I love you .  "  I had not said it 
before .  

 " And you call me Catherine  ?  "  

 " Catherine .  "  We walked on a way and were stopped 
under a tree .  

 " Say ,  Ive come back to Catherine in the night  "  

 " Ive come back to Catherine in the night .  "  

 " Oh ,  darling ,  you have come back ,  havent you ?  "  

 " Yes .  "  

 " I love you so and its been awful .  You wont go 
away ?  "  

 " No .  Ill always come back .  "  

 " Oh ,  I love you so .  Please put your hand there 
again .  "  

 " Its not been away .  "  I turned her so I could see her 
face when I kissed her and I saw that her eyes were 
shut .  I kissed both her shut eyes .  I thought she was 
probably a little crazy .  It was all right if she was .  I 
did not care what I was getting into .  This was better 
than going every evening to the house for officers where 
the girls climbed all over you and put your cap on back -  



32 A FAREWELL TO ARMS 

ward as a sign of affection between their trips upstairs 
with brother officers .  I knew I did not love Catherine 
Barkley nor had any idea of loving her .  This was a 
game ,  like bridge ,  in which you said things instead of 
playing cards .  Like bridge you had to pretend you 
were playing for money or playing for some stakes .  
Nobody had mentioned what the stakes were .  It was 
all right with me .  

 " I wish there was some place we could go ,  "  I said .  
I was experiencing the masculine difficulty of making 
love very long standing up .  

 " There isnt any place ,   ,  ,  she said .  She came back 
from wherever she had been .  

 " We might sit there just for a little while .   ,  ,  

We sat on the flat stone bench and I held Catherine 
Barkleys hand .  She would not let me put my arm 
around her .  

 " Are you very tired ?  "  she asked .  

 " No .  "  

She looked down at the grass .  

 " This is a rotten game we play ,  isnt it ?  "  

 " What game ?  "  

 " Dont be dull .  "  

 " Im not ,  on purpose .  "  

 " Youre a nice boy ,  "  she said .   " And you play it as 
well as you know how .  But its a rotten game .  "  

 " Do you always know what people think ?  "  

 " Not always .  But I do with you .  You dont have to 
pretend you love me .  Thats over for the evening .  Is 
there anything youd like to talk about ?  "  

 " But I do love you .  "  

 " Please lets not lie when we dont have to .  I had 
a very fine little show and Im all right now .  You see 



A FAREWELL TO ARMS 33 

Im not mad and Im not gone off .  Its only a little 
sometimes .  "  

I pressed her hand ,   " Dear Catherine .  "  

 " It sounds very funny now  Catherine .  You dont 
pronounce it very much alike .  But youre very nice .  
Youre a very good boy .  "  

 " Thats what the priest said .  "  

 " Yes ,  youre very good .  And you will come and see 
me ?  "  

 " Of course .  "  

 " And you dont have to say you love me .  Thats all 
over for a while .  "  She stood up and put out her hand .  
 " Good - night .  "  

I wanted to kiss her .  

 " No ,  "  she said .   " Im awfully tired .  "  

 " Kiss me ,  though ,  "  I said .  

 " Im awfully tired ,  darling .  "  

 " Kiss me .  "  

 " Do you want to very much ?  "  

 " Yes .  "  

We kissed and she broke away suddenly .   " No .  
Good - night ,  please ,  darling .  "  We walked to the door 
and I saw her go in and down the hall .  I liked to watch 
her move .  She went on down the hall .  I went on 
home .  It was a hot night and there was a good deal 
going on up in the mountains .  I watched the flashes 
on San Gabriele .  

I stopped in front of the Villa Rossa .  The shutters 
were up but it was still going on inside .  Somebody was 
singing .  I went on home .  Rinaldi came in while I was 
undressing .  

 " Ah ,  ha !  "  he said .   " It does not go so well .  Baby 
ispuzzled .  "  

 " Where have you been ?  "  



34 A FAREWELL TO ARMS 

 " At the Villa Rossa .  It was very edifying ,  baby .  
We all sang .  Where have you been ?  "  

 " Calling on the British .  "  

 " Thank God I did not become involved with the 
British .  "  



CHAPTER VII 

I came back the next afternoon from our first moun -  
tain post and stopped the car at the smistimento where 
the wounded and sick were sorted by their papers and 
the papers marked for the different hospitals .  I had 
been driving and I sat in the car and the driver took the 
papers in .  It was a hot day and the sky was very bright 
and blue and the road was white and dusty .  I sat in the 
high seat of the Fiat and thought about nothing .  A 
regiment went by in the road and I watched them pass .  
The men were hot and sweating .  Some wore their steel 
helmets but most of them carried them slung from their 
packs .  Most of the helmets were too big and came 
down almost over the ears of the men who wore them .  
The officers all wore helmets  ;  better - fitting helmets .  It 
was half of the brigata Basilicata .  I identified them by 
their red and white striped collar mark .  There were 
stragglers going by long after the regiment had passed 
 men who could not keep up with their platoons .  They 
were sweaty ,  dusty and tired .  Some looked pretty bad .  
A soldier came along after the last of the stragglers .  
He was walking with a limp .  He stopped and sat down 
beside the road .  I got down and went over .  

 " Whats the matter  ?  "  

He looked at me ,  then stood up .  

 " Im going on .  "  

 " Whats the trouble ?  "  

 "  the war .  "  

 " Whats wrong with your leg  ?  "  

 " Its not my leg .  I got a rupture .  "  

35 



36 A FAREWELL TO ARMS 

 " Why dont you ride with the transport  ?  "  I asked .  
 " Why dont you go to the hospital  ?  "  

 " They wont let me .  The lieutenant said I slipped the 
truss on purpose .  "  

 " Let me feel it .  "  

 " Its way out .  "  

 " Which side is it on ?  "  

 " Here .  "  

I felt it .  

 " Cough ,  "  I said .  

 " Im afraid it will make it bigger .  Its twice as big 
as it was this morning .  "  

 " Sit down ,  "  I said .   " As soon as I get the papers on 
these wounded Ill take you along the road and drop 
you with your medical officers .  "  

 " Hell say I did it on purpose .  "  

 " They cant do anything ,  "  I said .   " Its not a wound .  
Youve had it before ,  havent you ?  "  

 " But I lost the truss .  "  

 " Theyll send you to a hospital .  "  

 " Cant I stay here ,  Tenente ?  "  

 " No ,  I havent any papers for you .  "  

The driver came out of the door with the papers for 
the wounded in the car .  

 " Four for 105 .  Two for 132 ,  "  he said .  They were 
hospitals beyond the river .  

 " You drive ,  "  I said .  I helped the soldier with the 
rupture up on the seat with us .  

 " You speak English ?  "  he asked .  

 " Sure .  "  

 " How you like this goddam war ?  "  

 " Rotten .  "  

 " I say its rotten .  Jesus Christ ,  I say its rotten .  "  

 " Were you in the States ?  "  



A FAREWELL TO ARMS 37 

 " Sure .  In Pittsburg .  I knew you was an Ameri -  
can .  "  

 " Dont I talk Italian good enough  ?  "  

 " I knew you was an American all right .  "  

 " Another American/ said the driver in Italian look -  
ing at the hernia man .  

 " Listen ,  lootenant .  Do you have to take me to that 
regiment ?  "  

 " Yes .  "  

 " Because the captain doctor knew I had this rupture .  
I threw away the goddam truss so it would get bad and 
I wouldnt have to go to the line again .  "  

 " I see .  "  

 " Couldnt you take me no place else ?  "  

 " If it was closer to the front I could take you to a 
first medical post .  But back here youve got to have 
papers .  "  

 " If I go back theyll make me get operated on and 
then theyll put me in the line all the time .  "  

I thought it over .  

 " You wouldnt want to go in the line all the time ,  
would you ?  "  he asked .  

 " No .  "  

 " Jesus Christ ,  aint this a goddam war ?  "  

 " Listen ,  "  I said .   " You get out and fall down by the 
road and get a bump on your head and Ill pick you up 
on our way back and take you to a hospital .  Well stop 
by the road here ,  Aldo .  "  We stopped at the side of the 
road .  I helped him down .  

 " Ill be right here ,  lieutenant ,  "  he said .  

 " So long ,  "  I said .  We went on and passed the regi -  
ment about a mile ahead ,  then crossed the river ,  cloudy 
with snow - water and running fast through the spiles 
of the bridge ,  to ride along the road across the plain 



38 A FAREWELL TO ARMS 

and deliver the wounded at the two hospitals .  I drove 
coming back and went fast with the empty car to find 
the man from Pittsburg .  First we passed the regiment ,  
hotter and slower than ever : then the stragglers .  Then 
we saw a horse ambulance stopped by the road .  Two 
men were lifting the hernia man to put him in .  They 
had come back for him .  He shook his head at me .  His 
helmet was off and his forehead was bleeding below the 
hair line .  His nose was skinned and there was dust on 
the bloody patch and dust in his hair .  

 " Look at the bump ,  lieutenant  !  "  he shouted .   " Noth -  
ing to do .  They come back for me .  "  

When I got back to the villa it was five oclock and I 
went out where we washed the cars ,  to take a shower .  
Then I made out my report in my room ,  sitting in my 
trousers and an undershirt in front of the open win -  
dow .  In two days the offensive was to start and I 
would go with the cars to Plava .  It was a long time 
since I had written to the States and I knew I should 
write but I had let it go so long that it was almost im -  
possible to write now .  There was nothing to write 
about .  I sent a couple of army Zona di Guerra post -  
cards ,  crossing out everything except ,  I am well .  That 
should handle them .  Those post - cards would be very 
fine in America  ;  strange and mysterious .  This was a 
strange and mysterious war zone but I supposed it was 
quite well run and grim compared to other wars with 
the Austrians .  The Austrian army was created to give 
Napoleon victories  ;  any Napoleon .  I wished we had a 
Napoleon ,  but instead we had II Generale Cadorna ,  
fat and prosperous ,  and Vittorio Emmanuele ,  the tiny 
man with the long thin neck and the goat beard .  Over 
on the right they had the Duke of Aosta .  Maybe he 



A FAREWELL TO ARMS 39 

was too good - looking to be a great general but he looked 
like a man .  Lots of them would have liked him to be 
king .  He looked like a king .  He was the Kings uncle 
and commanded the third army .  We were in the second 
army .  There were some British batteries up with the 
third army .  I had met two gunners from that lot ,  in 
Milan .  They were very nice and we had a big evening ,  
They were big and shy and embarrassed and very ap -  
preciative together of anything that happened .  I wish 
that I was with the British .  It would have been much 
simpler .  Still I would probably have been killed .  Not 
in this ambulance business .  Yes ,  even in the ambulance 
business .  British ambulance drivers were killed some -  
times .  Well ,  I knew I would not be killed .  Not in this 
war .  It did not have anything to do with me .  It 
seemed no more dangerous to me myself than war 
in the movies .  I wished to God it was over though .  
Maybe it would finish this summer .  Maybe the Aus -  
trians would crack .  They had always cracked in other 
wars .  What was the matter with this war ?  Every -  
body said the French were through .  Rinaldi said that 
the French had mutinied and troops marched on Paris .  
I asked him what happened and he said ,   " Oh ,  they 
stopped them .  "  I wanted to go to Austria without war .  
I wanted to go to the Black Forest .  I wanted to go to 
the Hartz Mountains .  Where were the Hartz Moun -  
tains anyway ?  They were fighting in the Carpathians .  
I did not want to go there anyway .  It might be good 
though .  I could go to Spain if there was no war .  The 
sun was going down and the day was cooling off .  After 
supper I would go and see Catherine Barkley .  I wished 
she were here now .  I wished I were in Milan with her .  
I would like to eat at the Cova and then walk down the 
Via Manzoni in the hot evening and cross over and 



4 o A FAREWELL TO ARMS 

turn off along the canal and go to the hotel with Cath -  
erine Barkley .  Maybe she would .  Maybe she would 
pretend that I was her boy that was killed and we would 
go in the front door and the porter would take off his 
cap and I would stop at the concierges desk and ask 
for the key and she would stand by the elevator and then 
we would get in the elevator and it would go up very 
slowly clicking at all the floors and then our floor and 
the boy would open the door and stand there and she 
would step out and I would step out and we would walk 
down the hall and I would put the key in the door and 
open it and go in and then take down the telephone and 
ask them to send a bottle of capri bianca in a silver 
bucket full of ice and you would hear the ice against 
the pail coming down the corridor and the boy would 
knock and I would say leave it outside the door please .  
Because we would not wear any clothes because it was 
so hot and the window open and the swallows flying 
over the roofs of the houses and when it was dark 
afterward and you went to the window very small bats 
hunting over the houses and close down over the trees 
and we would drink the capri and the door locked and 
it hot and only a sheet and the whole night and we 
would both love each other all night in the hot night in 
Milan .  That was how it ought to be .  I would eat 
quickly and go and see Catherine Barkley .  

They talked too much at the mess and I drank wine 
because to - night we were not all brothers unless I drank 
a little and talked with the priest about Archbishop 
Ireland who was ,  it seemed ,  a noble man and with whose 
injustice ,  the injustices he had received and in which I 
participated as an American ,  and of which I had never 
heard ,  I feigned acquaintance .  It would have been im -  
polite not to have known something of them when I had 



A FAREWELL TO ARMS 41 

listened to such a splendid explanation of their causes 
which were ,  after all ,  it seemed ,  misunderstandings .  I 
thought he had a fine name and he came from Minne -  
sota which made a lovely name : Ireland of Minnesota ,  
Ireland of Wisconsin ,  Ireland of Michigan .  What 
made it pretty was that it sounded like Island .  No that 
wasnt it .  There was more to it than that .  Yes ,  father .  
That is true ,  father .  Perhaps ,  father .  No ,  father .  
Well ,  maybe yes ,  father .  You know more about it than 
I do ,  father .  The priest was good but dull .  The officers 
were not good but dull .  The King was good but dull .  
The wine was bad but not dull .  It took the enamel off 
your teeth and left it on the roof of your mouth .  

 " And the priest was locked up ,  "  Rocca said ,   " be -  
cause they found the three per cent bonds on his person .  
It was in France of course .  Here they would never 
have arrested him .  He denied all knowledge of the five 
per cent bonds .  This took place at Beziers .  I was there 
and reading of it in the paper ,  went to the jail and asked 
to see the priest .  It was quite evident he had stolen the 
bonds .  "  

 " I dont believe a word of this ,  "  Rinaldi said .  

 " Just as you like ,  "  Rocca said .   " But I am telling it 
for our priest here .  It is very informative .  He is a 
priest ;  he will appreciate it .  "  

The priest smiled .   " Go on ,  "  he said .   " I am listen -  
ing .  "  

 " Of course some of the bonds were not accounted 
for but the priest had all of the three per cent bonds 
and several local obligations ,  I forget exactly what they 
were .  So I went to the jail ,  now this is the point of the 
story ,  and I stood outside his cell and I said as though 
I were going to confession ,  Bless me ,  father ,  for you 
have sinned/  "  



42 A FAREWELL TO ARMS 

There was great laughter from everybody .  

 " And what did he say ?  "  asked the priest Rocca 
ignored this and went on to explain the joke to me .  
 " You see the point ,  dont you ?  "  It seemed it was a 
very funny joke if you understood it properly .  They 
poured me more wine and I told the story about the 
English private soldier who was placed under the show -  
er bath .  Then the major told the story of the eleven 
Czecho - slovaks and the Hungarian corporal .  After 
some more wine I told the story of the jockey who 
found the penny .  The major said there was an Italian 
story something like that about the duchess who could 
not sleep at night .  At this point the priest left and I 
told the story about the travelling salesman who arrived 
at five oclock in the morning at Marseilles when the 
mistral was blowing .  The major said he had heard a 
report that I could drink .  I denied this .  He said it 
was true and by the corpse of Bacchus we would test 
whether it was true or not .  Not Bacchus ,  I said .  Not 
Bacchus .  Yes ,  Bacchus ,  he said .  I should drink cup 
for cup and glass for glass with Bassi ,  Fillipo Vin -  
cenza .  Bassi said no that was no test because he had 
already drunk twice as much as I .  I said that was a 
foul lie and ,  Bacchus or no Bacchus ,  Fillipo Vincenza 
Bassi or Bassi Fillippo Vicenza had never touched a 
drop all evening and what was his name anyway ?  He 
said was my name Frederico Enrico or Enrico Feder -  
ico ?  I said let the best man win ,  Bacchus barred ,  and 
the major started us with red wine in mugs .  Half - way 
through the wine I did not want any more .  I remem -  
bered where I was going .  

 " Bassi wins ,  "  I said .   " Hes a better man than I am .  
I have to go .  "  

 " He does really ,  "  said Rinaldi .   " He has a rendezvous .  
I know all about it .  "  



A FAREWELL TO ARMS 43 

 " I have to go .  "  

 " Another night ,  "  said Bassi .   " Another night when 
you feel stronger .  "  He slapped me on the shoulder .  
There were lighted candles on the table .  All the officers 
were very happy .   " Good - night ,  gentlemen ,  "  I said .  

Rinaldi went out with me .  We stood outside the 
door on the patch and he said ,   " Youd better not go up 
there drunk .  "  

 " Im not drunk ,  Rinin .  Really .  "  

 " Youd better chew some coffee .  "  

 " Nonsense .  "  

 " Ill get some ,  baby .  You walk up and down .  "  He 
came back with a handful of roasted coffee beans ,  
 " Chew those ,  baby ,  and God be with you .  "  

 " Bacchus ,  "  I said .  

 " HI walk down with you .  "  

 " Im perfectly all right .  "  

We walked along together through the town and I 
chewed the coffee .  At the gate of the driveway that 
led up to the British villa ,  Rinaldi said good - night .  

 " Good - night ,  "  I said .   " Why dont you come in ?  "  

He shook his head .   " No ,  "  he said ,   " I like the sim -  
pler pleasures .  "  

 " Thank you for the coffee beans .  "  

 " Nothing ,  baby .  Nothing .  "  

I started down the driveway .  The outlines of the 
cypresses that lined it were sharp and clear .  I looked 
back and saw Rinaldi standing watching me and waved 
to him .  

I sat in the reception hall of the villa ,  waiting for 
Catherine Barkley to come down .  Some one was com -  
ing down the hall - way .  I stood up ,  but it was not 
Catherine .  It was Miss Ferguson .  

 " Hello ,  "  she said .   " Catherine asked me to tell you 
she was sorry she couldnt see you this evening .  "  



44 A FAREWELL TO ARMS 

 " Im so sorry .  I hope shes not ill .  "  

 " Shes not awfully well .  "  

 " Will you tell her how sorry I am ?  "  

 " Yes ,  I will .  "  

 " Do you think it would be any good to try and see 
her to - morrow ?  "  

 " Yes ,  I do .  "  

 " Thank you very much ,  "  I said .   " Good - night .  "  

I went out the door and suddenly I felt lonely and 
empty .  I had treated seeing Catherine very lightly ,  I 
had gotten somewhat drunk and had nearly forgotten 
to come but when I could not see her there I was feel -  
ing lonely and hollow .  



CHAPTER VIII 

The next afternoon we heard there was to be an at -  
tack up the river that night and that we were to take 
four cars there .  Nobody knew anything about it al -  
though they all spoke with great positiveness and stra -  
tegical knowledge .  I was riding in the first car and as 
we passed the entry to the British hospital I told the 
driver to stop .  The other cars pulled up .  I got out and 
told the driver to go on and that if we had not caught 
up to them at the junction of the road to Cormons to 
wait there .  I hurried up the driveway and inside the 
reception hall I asked for Miss Barkley .  

 " Shes on duty .  "  

 " Could I see her just for a moment  ?  "  

They sent an orderly to see and she came back with 
him .  

 " I stopped to ask if you were better .  They told me 
you were on duty ,  so I asked to see you .  "  

 " Im quite well/ she said ,   " I think the heat knocked 
me over yesterday .  "  

 " I have to go .  "  

 " Ill just step out the door a minute .  "  

 " And youre all right  ?  "  I asked outside .  

 " Yes ,  darling .  Are you coming to - night ?  "  

 " No .  Im leaving now for a show up above Plava .  "  

 " A show ?  "  

 " I dont think its anything .  "  

 " And youll be back ?  "  

 " To - morrow .  "  

She was unclasping something from her neck .  She 

45 



46 A FAREWELL TO ARMS 

put it in my hand .   " Its a Saint Anthony/ she said .  
 " And come to - morrow night .  "  

 " Youre not a Catholic ,  are you ?  "  

 " No .  But they say a Saint Anthonys very useful .  "  

 " HI take care of him for you .  Good - by .  "  

 " No ,  "  she said ,   " not good - by .  "  

 " All right .  "  

 " Be a good boy and be careful .  No ,  you cant kiss 
me here .  You cant .  "  

 " All right .  "  

I looked back and saw her standing on the steps .  
She waved and I kissed my hand and held it out .  She 
waved again and then I was out of the driveway and 
climbing up into the seat of the ambulance and we 
started .  The Saint Anthony was in a little white metal 
capsule .  I opened the capsule and spilled him out into 
my hand .  

 " Saint Anthony ?  "  asked the driver .  

 " Yes .  "  

 " I have one .  "  His right hand left the wheel and 
opened a button on his tunic and pulled it out from un -  
der his shirt .  

 " See ?  "  

I put my Saint Anthony back in the capsule ,  spilled 
the thin gold chain together and put it all in my breast 
pocket .  

 " You dont wear him  ?  "  

 " No .  "  

 " Its better to wear him .  Thats what its for .  "  

 " All right ,  "  I said .  I undid the clasp of the gold 
chain and put it around my neck and clasped it .  The 
saint hung down on the outside of my uniform and I 
undid the throat of my tunic ,  unbuttoned the shirt col -  
lar and dropped him in under the shirt .  I felt him in 



A FAREWELL TO ARMS 47 

his metal box against my chest while we drove .  Then I 
forgot about him .  After I was wounded I never found 
him .  Some one probably got it at one of the dressing 
stations .  

We drove fast when we were over the bridge and 
soon we saw the dust of the other cars ahead down the 
road .  The road curved and we saw the three cars look -  
ing quite small ,  the dust rising from the wheels and go -  
ing off through the trees .  We caught them and passed 
them and turned off on a road that climbed up into the 
hills .  Driving in convoy is not unpleasant if you are 
the first car and I settled back in the seat and watched 
the country .  We were in the foot - hills on the near side 
of the river and as the road mounted there were the 
high mountains off to the north with snow still on the 
tops .  I looked back and saw the three cars all climb -  
ing ,  spaced by the interval of their dust .  We passed a 
long column of loaded mules ,  the drivers walking along 
beside the mules wearing red fezzes .  They were ber -  
saglieri .  

Beyond the mule train the road was empty and we 
climbed through the hills and then went down over the 
shoulder of a long hill into a river - valley .  There were 
trees along both sides of the road and through the right 
line of trees I saw the river ,  the water clear ,  fast and 
shallow .  The river was low and there were stretches 
of sand and pebbles with a narrow channel of water 
and sometimes the water spread like a sheen over the 
pebbly bed .  Close to the bank I saw deep pools ,  the 
water blue like the sky .  I saw arched stone bridges 
over the river where tracks turned off from the road 
and we passed stone farmhouses with pear trees can -  
delabraed against their south walls and low stone walls 
in the fields .  The road went up the valley a long way 



48 A FAREWELL TO ARMS 

and then we turned off and commenced to climb into the 
hills again .  The road climbed steeply going up and back 
and forth through chestnut woods to level finally along 
a ridge .  I could look down through the woods and see ,  
far below ,  with the sun on it ,  the line of the river that 
separated the two armies .  We went along the rough 
new military road that followed the crest of the ridge 
and I looked to the north at the two ranges of moun -  
tains ,  green and dark to the snow - line and then white 
and lovely in the sun .  Then ,  as the road mounted along 
the ridge ,  I saw a third range of mountains ,  higher 
snow mountains ,  that looked chalky white and fur -  
rowed ,  with strange planes ,  and then there were moun -  
tains far off beyond all these that you could hardly tell 
if you really saw .  Those were all the Austrians moun -  
tains and we had nothing like them .  Ahead there was a 
rounded turn - off in the road to the right and looking 
down I could see the road dropping through the trees .  
There were troops on this road and motor trucks and 
mules with mountain guns and as we went down ,  keep -  
ing to the side ,  I could see the river far down below ,  
the line of ties and rails running along it ,  the old bridge 
where the railway crossed to the other side and across ,  
under a hill beyond the river ,  the broken houses of the 
little town that was to be taken .  

It was nearly dark when we came down and turned 
onto the main road that ran beside the river .  



CHAPTER IX 

The road was crowded and there were screens of 
corn - stalk and straw matting on both sides and matting 
over the top so that it was like the entrance at a circus 
or a native village .  We drove slowly in this matting -  
covered tunnel and came out onto a bare cleared space 
where the railway station had been .  The road here was 
below the level of the river bank and all along the side 
of the sunken road there were holes dug in the bank 
with infantry in them .  The sun was going down and 
looking up along the bank as we drove I saw the Aus -  
trian observation balloons above the hills on the other 
side dark against the sunset .  We parked the cars be -  
yond a brickyard .  The ovens and some deep holes had 
been equipped as dressing stations .  There were three 
doctors that I knew .  I talked with the major and 
learned that when it should start and our cars should be 
loaded we would drive them back along the screened 
road and up to the main road along the ridge where 
there would be a post and other cars to clear them .  
He hoped the road would not jam .  It was a one - road 
show .  The road was screened because it was in sight of 
the Austrians across the river .  Here at the brickyard 
we were sheltered from rifle or machine - gun fire by the 
river bank .  There was one smashed bridge across the 
river .  They were going to put over another bridge 
when the bombardment started and some troops were 
to cross at the shallows up above at the bend of the 
river .  The major was a little man with upturned mus -  
taches .  He had been in the war in Libya and wore two 
wound - stripes .  He said that if the thing went well he 

49 



50 A FAREWELL TO ARMS 

would see that I was decorated .  I said I hoped it would 
go well but that he was too kind .  I asked him if there 
was a big dugout where the drivers could stay and he 
sent a soldier to show me .  I went with him and found 
the dugout ,  which was very good .  The drivers were 
pleased with it and I left them there .  The major asked 
me to have a drink with him and two other officers .  We 
drank rum and it was very friendly .  Outside it was get -  
ting dark .  I asked what time the attack was to be and 
they said as soon as it was dark .  I went back to the 
drivers .  They were sitting in the dugout talking and 
when I came in they stopped .  I gave them each a pack -  
age of cigarettes ,  Macedonias ,  loosely packed ciga -  
rettes that spilled tobacco and needed to have the ends 
twisted before you smoked them .  Manera lit his lighter 
and passed it around .  The lighter was shaped like a 
Fiat radiator .  I told them what I had heard .  

 " Why didnt we see the post when we came down ?  "  
Passini asked .  

 " It was just beyond where we turned off .  "  
  " That road will be a dirty mess ,  "  Manera said .  

 " Theyll shell the out of us .  "  

 " Probably .  "  

 " What about eating ,  lieutenant ?  We wont get a 
chance to eat after this thing starts .  "  

 " Ill go and see now ,  "  I said .  

 " You want us to stay here or can we look around ?  "  

 " Better stay here .  "  

I went back to the majors dugout and he said the field 
kitchen would be along and the drivers could come and 
get their stew .  He would loan them mess tins i f they did 
not have them .  I said I thought they had them .  I went 
back and told the drivers I would get them as soon as the 
food came .  Manera said he hoped it would come before 



A FAREWELL TO ARMS 51 

the bombardment started .  They were silent until I went 
out .  They were all mechanics and hated the war .  

I went out to look at the cars and see what was going 
on and then came back and sat down in the dugout with 
the four drivers .  We sat on the ground with our backs 
against the wall and smoked .  Outside it was nearly dark .  
The earth of the dugout was warm and dry and I let my 
shoulders back against the wall ,  sitting on the small of 
my back ,  and relaxed .  

 " Who goes to the attack ?  "  asked Gavuzzi .  

 " Bersaglieri .  "  

 " All bersaglieri ?  "  

 " I think so .  "  

 " There arent enough troops here for a real attack .  "  

 " It is probably to draw attention from where the real 
attack will be .  "  

 " Do the men know that who attack ?  "  

 " I dont think so .  "  

 " Of course they dont ,  "  Manera said .   " They wouldnt 
attack if they did .  "  

 " Yes they would ,  "  Passini said .   " Bersaglieri are 
fools .  "  

 " They are brave and have good discipline ,  "  I said .  

 " They are big through the chest by measurement ,  and 
healthy .  But they are still fools .  "  

 " The granatieri are tall ,  "  Manera said .  This was a 
joke .  They all laughed .  

 " Were you there ,  Tenente ,  when they wouldnt at -  
tack and they shot every tenth man ?  "  

 " No .  "  

 " It is true .  They lined them up afterward and took 
every tenth man .  Carabinieri shot them .  "  

 " Carabinieri ,  "  said Passini and spat on the floor .  



52 A FAREWELL TO ARMS 

 " But those grenadiers  ;  all over six feet .  They wouldnt 
attack .  "  

 " If everybody would not attack the war would be 
over ,  "  Manera said .  

 " It wasnt that way with the granatieri .  They were 
afraid .  The officers all came from such good families .  "  

 " Some of the officers went alone .  "  

 " A sergeant shot two officers who would not get 
out .  "  

 " Some troops went out "  

 " Those that went out were not lined up when they 
took the tenth men .  "  

 " One of those shot by the carabinieri is from my 
town ,  "  Passini said .   " He was a big smart tall boy to be 
in the granatieri .  Always in Rome .  Always with the 
girls .  Always with the carabinieri .  "  He laughed .  
 " Now they have a guard outside his house with a bayo -  
net and nobody can come to see his mother and father 
and sisters and his father loses his civil rights and can -  
not even vote .  They are all without law to protect them .  
Anybody can take their property .  "  

 " If it wasnt that that happens to their families no -  
body would go to the attack .  "  

 " Yes .  Alpini would .  These V .  E .  soldiers would .  
Some bersaglieri .  "  

 " Bersaglieri have run too .  Now they try to forget 
it .  "  

 " You should not let us talk this way ,  Tenente .  Ev -  
viva Tesercito ,  "  Passini said sarcastically .  

 " I know how you talk ,  "  I said .   " But as long as you 
drive the cars and behave  "  

 "   and dont talk so other officers can hear ,  "  Manera 
finished .  

 " I believe we should get the war over ,  "  I said .   " It 



A FAREWELL TO ARMS 53 

would not finish it if one side stopped fighting .  It 
would only be worse if we stopped fighting .  "  

 " It could not be worse/ Passini said respectfully .  
 " There is nothing worse than war .  "  

 " Defeat is worse .  "  

 " I do not believe it ,  "  Passini said still respectfully .  
 " What is defeat ?  You go home .  "  

 " They come after you .  They take your home .  They 
take your sisters .  "  

 " I dont believe it ,  "  Passini said .   " They cant do that 
to everybody .  Let everybody defend his home .  Let 
them keep their sisters in the house .  "  

 " They hang you .  They come and make you be a 
soldier again .  Not in the auto - ambulance ,  in the in -  
fantry .  "  

 " They cant hang every one .  "  

 " An outside nation cant make you be a soldier ,  "  
Manera said .   " At the first battle you all run .  "  

 " Like the Tchecos .  "  

 " I think you do not know anything about being con -  
quered and so you think it is not bad .  "  

 " Tenente ,  "  Passini said .   " We understand you let us 
talk .  Listen .  There is nothing as bad as war .  We in 
the auto - ambulance cannot even realize at all how bad 
it is .  When people realize how bad it is they cannot do 
anything to stop it because they go crazy .  There are 
some people who never realize .  There are people who 
are afraid of their officers .  It is with them that war is 
made .  "  

 " I know it is bad but we must finish it .  "  

 " It doesnt finish .  There is no finish to a war .  "  

 " Yes there is .  "  

Passini shook his head .  

 " War is not won by victory .  What if we take San 



54 A FAREWELL TO ARMS 

Gabriele ?  What if we take the Carso and Monfalcone 
and Trieste ?  Where are we then ?  Did you see all the 
far mountains to - day ?  Do you think we could take all 
them too ?  Only if the Austrians stop fighting .  One 
side must stop fighting .  Why dont we stop fighting ?  
If they come down into Italy they will get tired and 
go away .  They have their own country .  But no ,  in -  
stead there is a war .  "  

 " Youre an orator .  "  

We think .  We read .  We are not peasants .  We are 
mechanics .  But even the peasants know better than to 
believe in a war .  Everybody hates this war .  "  

 " There is a class that controls a country that is stupid 
and does not realize anything and never can .  That is 
why we have this war .  "  

 " Also they make money out of it .  "  

 " Most of them dont ,  "  said Passini .   " They are too 
stupid .  They do it for nothing .  For stupidity .  "  

 " We must shut up ,  "  said Manera .   " We talk too 
much even for the Tenente .  "  

 " He likes it ,  "  said Passini .   " We will convert him .  "  

 " But now we will shut up ,  "  Manera said .  

 " Do we eat yet ,  Tenente ?  "  Gavuzzi asked .  

 " I will go and see ,  "  I said .  Gordini stood up and 
went outside with me .  

 " Is there anything I can do ,  Tenente ?  Can I help in 
any way ?  "  He was the quietest one of the four .  
 " Come with me if you want ,  "  I said ,   " and well see .  "  

It was dark outside and the long light from the 
search - lights was moving over the mountains .  There 
were big search - lights on that front mounted on cami -  
ons that you passed sometimes on the roads at night ,  
close behind the lines ,  the camion stopped a little off the 
road ,  an officer directing the light and the crew scared .  



A FAREWELL TO ARMS 55 

We crossed the brickyard ,  and stopped at the main 
dressing station .  There was a little shelter of green 
branches outside over the entrance and in the dark the 
night wind rustled the leaves dried by the sun .  Inside 
there was a light .  The major was at the telephone sit -  
ting on a box .  One of the medical captains said the at -  
tack had been put forward an hour .  He offered me a 
glass of cognac .  I looked at the board tables ,  the in -  
struments shining in the light ,  the basins and the stop -  
pered bottles .  Gordini stood behind me .  The major 
got up from the telephone .  

 " It starts now ,  "  he said .   " It has been put back 
again .  "  

I looked outside ,  it was dark and the Austrian search -  
lights were moving on the mountains behind us .  It was 
quiet for a moment still ,  then from all the guns behind 
us the bombardment started .  

 " Savoia ,  "  said the major .  

 " About the soup ,  major ,  "  I said .  He did not hear 
me .  I repeated it .  

 " It hasnt come up .  "  

A big shell came in and burst outside in the brick -  
yard .  Another burst and in the noise you could hear 
the smaller noise of the brick and dirt raining down .  

 " What is there to eat ?  "  

 " We have a little pasta asciutta ,  "  the major said .  

 " Ill take what you can give me .  "  

The major spoke to an orderly who went out of 
sight in the back and came back with a metal basin of 
cold cooked macaroni .  I handed it to Gordini .  

 " Have you any cheese ?  "  

The major spoke grudgingly to the orderly who 
ducked back into the hole again and came out with a 
quarter of a white cheese .  



56 A FAREWELL TO ARMS 

Thank you very much ,  "  I said .  

 " Youd better not go out .  "  

Outside something was set down beside the entrance .  
One of the two men who had carried it looked in .  

 " Bring him in ,  "  said the major .   " Whats the matter 
with you ?  Do you want us to come outside and get 
him ?  "  

The two stretcher - bearers picked up the man under 
the arms and by the legs and brought him in .  

 " Slit the tunic ,  "  the major said .  

He held a forceps with some gauze in the end .  The 
two captains took off their coats .   " Get out of here ,  "  the 
major said to the two stretcher - bearers .  

 " Come on ,  "  I said to Gordini .  

 " You better wait until the shelling is over ,  "  the ma -  
jor said over his shoulder .  

 " They want to eat ,  "  I said .  

 " As you wish .  "  

Outside we ran across the brickyard .  A shell burst 
short near the river bank .  Then there was one that we 
did not hear coming until the sudden rush .  We both 
went flat and with the flash and bump of the burst and 
the smell heard the singing off of the fragments and 
the rattle of falling brick .  Gordini got up and ran for 
the dugout .  I was after him ,  holding the cheese ,  its 
smooth surface covered with brick dust Inside the 
dugout were the three drivers sitting against the wall ,  
smoking .  

 " Here ,  you patriots ,  "  I said .  

 " How are the cars  ?  "  Manera asked .  

 " All right .  "  

 " Did they scare you ,  Tenente ?  "  

 " Youre damned right ,  "  I said .  

I took out my knife ,  opened it ,  wiped off the blade 



A FAREWELL TO ARMS 57 

and pared off the dirty outside surface of the cheese .  
Gavuzzi handed me the basin of macaroni .  

 " Start in to eat ,  Tenente .  "  

 " No ,  "  I said .   " Put it on the floor .  Well all eat .  "  

 " There are no forks .  "  

 " What the hell ,  "  I said in English .  

I cut the cheese into pieces and laid them on the 
macaroni .  

 " Sit down to it ,  "  I said .  They sat down and waited .  
I put thumb and fingers into the macaroni and lifted .  
A mass loosened .  

 " Lift it high ,  Tenente .  "  

I lifted it to arms length and the strands cleared .  I 
lowered it into the mouth ,  sucked and snapped in the 
ends ,  and chewed ,  then took a bite of cheese ,  chewed ,  
and then a drink of the wine .  It tasted of rusty metal .  
I handed the canteen back to Passini .  

 " Its rotten ,  "  he said .   " Its been in there too long .  
I had it in the car .  "  

They were all eating ,  holding their chins close over 
the basin ,  tipping their heads back ,  sucking in the ends .  
I took another mouthful and some cheese and a rinse of 
wine .  Something landed outside that shook the earth .  

 " Four hundred twenty or minnenwerfer ,  "  Gavuzzi 
said .  

 " There arent any four hundred twenties in the 
mountains ,  "  I said .  

 " They have big Skoda guns .  Ive seen the holes .  "  

 " Three hundred fives .  "  

We went on eating .  There was a cough ,  a noise like 
a railway engine starting and then an explosion that 
shook the earth again .  

 " This isnt a deep dugout ,  "  Passini said .  

 " That was a big trench mortar .  "  



58 A FAREWELL TO ARMS 

 " Yes ,  sir .  "  

I ate the end of my piece of cheese and took a swal -  
low of wine .  Through the other noise I heard a cough ,  
then came the chuh - chuh - chuh - chuh  then there was a 
flash ,  as when a blast - furnace door is swung open ,  and 
a roar that started white and went red and on and on in 
a rushing wind .  I tried to breathe but my breath would 
not come and I felt myself rush bodily out of myself 
and out and out and out and all the time bodily in the 
wind .  I went out swiftly ,  all of myself ,  and I knew I 
was dead and that it had all been a mistake to think you 
just died .  Then I floated ,  and instead of going on I felt 
myself slide back .  I breathed and I was back .  The 
ground was torn up and in front of my head there was 
a splintered beam of wood .  In the jolt of my head I 
heard somebody crying .  I thought somebody was 
screaming .  I tried to move but I could not move .  I 
heard the machine - guns and rifles firing across the river 
and all along the river .  There was a great splashing and 
I saw the star - shells go up and burst and float whitely 
and rockets going up and heard the bombs ,  all this in a 
moment ,  and then I heard close to me some one saying 
 " Mama Mia !  Oh ,  mama Mia !  "  I pulled and twisted 
and got my legs loose finally and turned around and 
touched him .  It was Passini and when I touched him 
he screamed .  His legs were toward me and I saw in 
the dark and the light that they were both smashed 
above the knee .  One leg was gone and the other was 
held by tendons and part of the trouser and the stump 
twitched and jerked as though it were not connected .  
He bit his arm and moaned ,   " Oh mama mia ,  mama 
Mia ,  "  then ,   " Dio te salve ,  Maria .  Dio te salve ,  Maria .  
Oh Jesus shoot me Christ shoot me mama mia mama 
Mia oh purest lovely Mary shoot me .  Stop it .  Stop it .  



A FAREWELL TO ARMS 59 

Stop it .  Oh Jesus lovely Mary stop it .  Oh oh oh oh ,  "  
then choking ,   " Mama mama mia .  "  Then he was quiet ,  
biting his arm ,  the stump of his leg twitching .  

 " Porta feriti  !  "  I shouted holding my hands cupped .  
 " Porta Feriti  !  "  I tried to get closer to Passini to try 
to put a tourniquet on the legs but I could not move .  I 
tried again and my legs moved a little .  I could pull 
backward along with my arms and elbows .  Passini 
was quiet now .  I sat beside him ,  undid my tunic and 
tried to rip the tail of my shirt .  It would not rip and 
I bit the edge of the cloth to start it .  Then I thought of 
his puttees .  I had on wool stockings but Passini wore 
puttees .  All the drivers wore puttees but Passini had 
only one leg .  I unwound the puttee and while I was 
doing it I saw there was no need to try and make a 
tourniquet because he was dead already .  I made sure 
he was dead .  There were three others to locate .  I sat 
up straight and as I did so something inside my head 
moved like the weights on a dolls eyes and it hit me 
inside in back of my eyeballs .  My legs felt warm and 
wet and my shoes were wet and warm inside .  I knew 
that I was hit and leaned over and put my hand on my 
knee .  My knee wasnt there .  My hand went in and 
my knee was down on my shin .  I wiped my hand on 
my shirt and another floating light came very slowly 
down and I looked at my leg and was very afraid .  Oh ,  
God ,  I said ,  get me out of here .  I knew ,  however ,  that 
there had been three others .  There were four drivers .  
Passini was dead .  That left three .  Some one took 
hold of me under the arms and somebody else lifted my 
legs .  

 " There are three others ,  "  I said .   " One is dead .  "  
 " Its Manera .  We went for a stretcher but there 
wasnt any .  How are you ,  Tenente ?  "  



60 A FAREWELL TO ARMS 

 " Where is Gordini and Gavuzzi ?  "  

 " Gordinis at the post getting bandaged .  Gavuzzi 
has your legs .  Hold on to my neck ,  Tenente .  Are you 
badly hit ?  "  

 " In the leg .  How is Gordini  ?  "  

 " Hes all right .  It was a big trench mortar shell .  "  

 " Passings dead .  "  

 " Yes .  Hes dead .  "  

A shell fell close and they both dropped to the ground 
and dropped me .   " Im sorry ,  Tenente ,  "  said Manera .  
 " Hang onto my neck .  "  

 " If you drop me again .  "  

 " It was because we were scared .  "  

 " Are you unwounded  ?  "  

 " We are both wounded a little .  "  

 " Can Gordini drive ?  "  

 " I dont think so .  "  

They dropped me once more before we reached the 
post .  

 " You sons of bitches ,  "  I said .  

 " I am sorry ,  Tenente ,  "  Manera said .   " We wont 
drop you again .  "  

Outside the post a great many of us lay on the 
ground in the dark .  They carried wounded in and 
brought them out .  I could see the light come out from 
the dressing station when the curtain opened and they 
brought some one in or out .  The dead were off to one 
side .  The doctors were working with their sleeves up 
to their shoulders and were red as butchers .  There 
were not enough stretchers .  Some of the wounded 
were noisy but most were quiet .  The wind blew the 
leaves in the bower over the door of the dressing sta -  
tion and the night was getting cold .  Stretcher - bearers 



A FAREWELL TO ARMS 61 

came in all the time ,  put their stretchers down ,  un -  
loaded them and went away .  As soon as I got to the 
dressing station Manera brought a medical sergeant 
out and he put bandages on both my legs .  He said 
there was so much dirt blown into the wound that there 
had not been much hemorrhage .  They would take me 
as soon as possible .  He went back inside .  Gordini 
could not drive ,  Manera said .  His shoulder was 
smashed and his head was hurt .  He had not felt bad 
but now the shoulder had stiffened .  He was sitting up 
beside one of the brick walls .  Manera and Gavuzzi 
each went off with a load of wounded .  They could drive 
all right .  The British had come with three ambulances 
and they had two men on each ambulance .  One of their 
drivers came over to me ,  brought by Gordini who 
looked very white and sick .  The Britisher leaned over .  

 " Are you hit badly ?  "  he asked .  He was a tall man 
and wore steel - rimmed spectacles .  

 " In the legs .  "  

 " Its not serious I hope .  Will you have a cigarette ?  "  

 " Thanks .  "  

 " They tell me youve lost two drivers .   ,  ,  

 " Yes .  One killed and the fellow that brought you .  "  

 " What rotten luck .  Would you like us to take the 
cars ?  "  

 " Thats what I wanted to ask you .  "  

 " Wed take quite good care of them and return 
them to the Villa .  206 arent you  ?  "  

 " Yes .  "  

 " Its a charming place .  Ive seen you about .  They 
tell me youre an American .  "  

 " Yes .  "  

 " Im English .  "  



62 A FAREWELL TO ARMS 

 " No !  "  

 " Yes ,  English .  Did you think I was Italian ?  There 
were some Italians with one of our units .  "  

 " It would be fine if you would take the cars ,  "  I said .  

 " Well be most careful of them ,  "  he straightened up .  
 " This chap of yours was very anxious for me to see 
you .  "  He patted Gordini on the shoulder .  Gordini 
winced and smiled .  The Englishman broke into voluble 
and perfect Italian .   " Now everything is arranged .  Ive 
seen your Tenente .  We will take over the two cars .  
You wont worry now .  "  He broke off ,   " I must do 
something about getting you out of here .  HI see the 
medical wallahs .  Well take you back with us .  "  

He walked across to the dressing station ,  stepping 
carefully among the wounded .  I saw the blanket open ,  
the light came out and he went in .  

 " He will look after you ,  Tenente ,  "  Gordini said .  

 " How are you ,  Franco ?  "  

 " I am all right .  "  He sat down beside me .  In a 
moment the blanket in front of the dressing station 
opened and two stretcher - bearers came out followed by 
the tall Englishman .  He brought them over to me .  

 " Here is the American Tenente ,  "  he said in Italian .  

 " Id rather wait ,  "  I said .   " There are much worse 
wounded than me .  Im all right .  "  

 " Come come ,  "  he said .   " Dont be a bloody hero .  "  
Then in Italian:  " Lift him very carefully about the 
legs .  His legs are very painful .  He is the legitimate 
son of President Wilson .  "  They picked me up and 
took me into the dressing room .  Inside they were oper -  
ating on all the tables .  The little major looked at us 
furious .  He recognized me and waved a forceps .  

 " Qavabien ?  "  

 " Ca va .  "  



A FAREWELL TO ARMS 6 3 

 " I have brought him in ,  "  the tall Englishman said in 
Italian .   " The only son of the American Ambassador .  
He can be here until you are ready to take him .  Then I 
will take him with my first load .  "  He bent over me .  
 " Ill look up their adjutant to do your papers and it will 
all go much faster .  "  He stooped to go under the door -  
way and went out .  The major was unhooking the for -  
ceps now ,  dropping them in a basin .  I followed his 
hands with my eyes .  Now he was bandaging .  Then 
the stretcher - bearers took the man off the table .  

Til take the American Tenente ,  "  one of the captains 
said .  They lifted me onto the table .  It was hard and 
slippery .  There were many strong smells ,  chemical 
smells and the sweet smell of blood .  They took off my 
trousers and the medical captain commenced dictating 
to the sergeant - adjutant while he worked ,   " Multiple 
superficial wounds of the left and right thigh and left 
and right knee and right foot .  Profound wounds of 
right knee and foot .  Lacerations of the scalp (he 
probed  Does that hurt ?   Christ ,  yes ! ) with pos -  
sible fracture of the skull .  Incurred in the line of duty .  
Thats what keeps you from being court - martialled for 
self - inflicted wounds ,  "  he said .   " Would you like a drink 
of brandy ?  How did you run into this thing anyway ?  
What were you trying to do  ?  Commit suicide  ?  Anti -  
tetanus please ,  and mark a cross on both legs .  Thank 
you .  Ill clean this up a little ,  wash it out ,  and put on a 
dressing .  Your blood coagulates beautifully .  "  

The adjutant ,  looking up from the paper ,   " What in -  
flicted the wounds  ?  "  

The medical captain ,   " What hit you  ?  "  
Me ,  with the eyes shut ,   " A trench mortar shell .  "  
The captain ,  doing things that hurt sharply and 
severing tissue   " Are you sure ?  "  



64 A FAREWELL TO ARMS 

Me  trying to lie still and feeling my stomach flut -  
ter when the flesh was cut ,   " I think so .  "  

Captain doctor  (interested in something he was 
finding) ,   " Fragments of enemy trench - mortar shell .  
Now Ill probe for some of this if you like but its not 
necessary .  Ill paint all this and  Does that sting ?  
Good ,  thats nothing to how it will feel later .  The pain 
hasnt started yet .  Bring him a glass of brandy .  The 
shock dulls the pain  ;  but this is all right ,  you have noth -  
ing to worry about if it doesnt infect and it rarely 
does now .  How is your head ?  "  

 " Good Christ !  "  I said .  

 " Better not drink too much brandy then .  If youve 
got a fracture you dont want inflammation .  How does 
that feel ?  "  

Sweat ran all over me .  

 " Good Christ !  "  I said .  

 " I guess youve got a fracture all right .  Ill wrap 
you up and dont bounce your head around .  "  He band -  
aged ,  his hands moving very fast and the bandage 
coming taut and sure .   " All right ,  good luck and Vive 
la France .  "  

 " Hes an American ,  "  one of the other captains said .  

 " I thought you said he was a Frenchman .  He talks 
French ,  "  the captain said .   " Ive known him before .  I 
always thought he was French .  "  He drank a half 
tumbler of cognac .   " Bring on something serious .  Get 
some more of that Anti - tetanus .  "  The captain waved to 
me .  They lifted me and the blanket - flap went across 
my face as we went out .  Outside the sergeant - adjutant 
knelt down beside me where I lay ,   " Name ?  "  he asked 
softly .   " Middle name ?  First name ?  Rank ?  Where 
born ?  What class ?  What corps ?  "  and so on .   " Im 



A FAREWELL TO ARMS 65 

sorry for your head ,  Tenente .  I hope you feel better .  
Im sending you now with the English ambulance .  "  

 " Fm all right ,  "  I said .  Thank you very much .  "  
The pain that the major had spoken about had started 
and all that was happening was without interest or rela -  
tion .  After a while the English ambulance came up 
and they put me onto a stretcher and lifted the stretcher 
up to the ambulance level and shoved it in .  There was 
another stretcher by the side with a man on it whose 
nose I could see ,  waxy - looking ,  out of the bandages .  
He breathed very heavily .  There were stretchers lifted 
and slid into the slings above .  The tall English driver 
came around and looked in ,  Til take it very easily ,  "  he 
said .   " I hope youll be comfy .  "  I felt the engine start ,  
felt him climb up into the front seat ,  felt the brake 
come off and the clutch go in ,  then we started .  I lay 
still and let the pain ride .  

As the ambulance climbed along the road ,  it was slow 
in the traffic ,  sometimes it stopped ,  sometimes it backed 
on a turn ,  then finally it climbed quite fast .  I felt 
something dripping .  At first it dropped slowly and reg -  
ularly ,  then it pattered into a stream .  I shouted to the 
driver .  He stopped the car and looked in through the 
hole behind his seat .  

 " What is it ?  "  

 " The man on the stretcher over me has a hemor -  
rhage .  "  

 " Were not far from the top .  I wouldnt be able to 
get the stretcher out alone .  "  He started the car .  The 
stream kept on .  In the dark I could not see where it 
came from the canvas overhead .  I tried to move side -  
ways so that it did not fall on me .  Where it had run 
down under my shirt it was warm and sticky .  I was 
cold and my leg hurt so that it made me sick .  After a 



66 A FAREWELL TO ARMS 

while the stream from the stretcher above lessened and 
started to drip again and I heard and felt the canvas 
above move as the man on the stretcher settled more 
comfortably .  

 " How is he ?  "  the Englishman called back .   " Were 
almost up .  "  

 " Hes dead I think ,  "  I said .  

The drops fell very slowly ,  as they fall from an icicle 
after the sun has gone .  It was cold in the car in the 
night as the road climbed .  At the post on the top they 
took the stretcher out and put another in and we went 
on .  



CHAPTER X 

In the ward at the field hospital they told me a visitor 
was coming to see me in the afternoon .  It was a hot 
day and there were many flies in the room .  My orderly 
had cut paper into strips and tied the strips to a stick to 
make a brush that swished the flies away .  I watched 
them settle on the ceiling .  When he stopped swishing 
and fell asleep they came down and I blew them away 
and finally covered my face with my hands and slept 
too .  It was very hot and when I woke my legs itched .  
I waked the orderly and he poured mineral water on the 
dressings .  That made the bed damp and cool .  Those of 
us that were awake talked across the ward .  The after -  
noon was a quiet time .  In the morning they came to 
each bed in turn ,  three men nurses and a doctor and 
picked you up out of bed and carried you into the 
dressing room so that the beds could be made while 
we were having our wounds dressed .  It was not a 
pleasant trip to the dressing room and I did not know 
until later that beds could be made with men in them .  
My orderly had finished pouring water and the bed felt 
cool and lovely and I was telling him where to scratch 
on the soles of my feet against the itching when one 
of the doctors brought in Rinaldi .  He came in very 
fast and bent down over the bed and kissed me .  I saw 
he wore gloves .  

 " How are you ,  baby ?  How do you feel ?  I bring 
you this   "  It was a bottle of cognac .  The orderly 
brought a chair and he sat down ,   " and good news .  
You will be decorated .  They want to get you the 

67 



68 A FAREWELL TO ARMS 

medaglia dargento but perhaps they can get only the 
bronze .  "  

 " What for ?  "  

 " Because you are gravely wounded .  They say if you 
can prove you did any heroic act you can get the silver .  
Otherwise it will be the bronze .  Tell me exactly what 
happened .  Did you do any heroic act ?  "  

 " No ,  "  I said .   " I was blown up while we were eating 
cheese .  "  

 " Be serious .  You must have done something heroic 
either before or after .  Remember carefully .  "  

 " I did not .  "  

 " Didnt you carry anybody on your back ?  Gordini 
says you carried several people on your back but the 
medical major at the first post declares it is impossible .  
He has to sign the proposition for the citation .  "  

 " I didnt carry anybody .  I couldnt move .  "  

 " That doesnt matter ,  "  said Rinaldi .  

He took off his gloves .  

 " I think we can get you the silver .  Didnt you re -  
fuse to be medically aided before the others ?  "  

 " Not very firmly .  "  

 " That doesnt matter .  Look how you are wounded .  
Look at your valorous conduct in asking to go always 
to the first line .  Besides ,  the operation was successful .  "  

 " Did they cross the river all right ?  "  

 " Enormously .  They take nearly a thousand pris -  
oners .  Its in the bulletin .  Didnt you see it ?  "  

 " No .  "  

 " Ill bring it to you .  It is a successful coup de main .  "  

 " How is everything ?  "  

 " Splendid .  We are all splendid .  Everybody is proud 
of you .  Tell me just exactly how it happened .  I am 
positive you will get the silver .  Go on tell me .  Tell me 



A FAREWELL TO ARMS 69 

all about it .  "  He paused and thought .   " Maybe you will 
get an English medal too .  There was an English there .  
Ill go and see him and ask if he will recommend you .  
He ought to be able to do something .  Do you suffer 
much ?  Have a drink .  Orderly ,  go get a corkscrew .  
Oh you should see what I did in the removal of three 
metres of small intestine and better now than ever .  It 
is one for The Lancet ,  You do me a translation and I 
will send it to The Lancet .  Every day I am better .  
Poor dear baby ,  how do you feel  ?  Where is that damn 
corkscrew  ?  You are so brave and quiet I forget you are 
suffering .  "  He slapped his gloves on the edge of the 
bed .  

 " Here is the corkscrew ,  Signor Tenente ,  "  the order -  
ly said .  

 " Open the bottle .  Bring a glass .  Drink that ,  baby .  
How is your poor head  ?  I looked at your papers .  You 
havent any fracture .  That major at the first post was 
a hog - butcher .  I would take you and never hurt you .  
I never hurt anybody .  I learn how to do it .  Every 
day I learn to do things smoother and better .  You 
must forgive me for talking so much ,  baby .  I am very 
moved to see you badly wounded .  There ,  drink that .  
Its good .  It cost fifteen lire .  It ought to be good .  
Five stars .  After I leave here Ill go see that English 
and hell get you an English medal .  "  

 " They dont give them like that .  "  

 " You are so modest .  I will send the liaison officer .  
He can handle the English .  "  

 " Have you seen Miss Barkley ?  "  

 " I will bring her here .  I will go now and bring her 
here .  "  

 " Dont go ,  "  I said .   " Tell me about Gorizia .  How 
are the girls  ?  "  



70 A FAREWELL TO ARMS 

 " There are no girls .  For two weeks now they havent 
changed them .  I dont go there any more .  It is dis -  
graceful .  They arent girls ;  they are old war com -  
rades .  "  

 " You dont go at all ?  "  

 " I just go to see if there is anything new .  I stop 
by .  They all ask for you .  It is a disgrace that they 
should stay so long that they become friends .  "  

 " Maybe girls dont want to go to the front any more .  "  

 " Of course they do .  They have plenty of girls .  It is 
just bad administration .  They are keeping them for the 
pleasure of dugout hiders in the rear .  "  

 " Poor Rinaldi ,  "  I said .   " All alone at the war with 
no new girls .  "  

Rinaldi poured himself another glass of the cognac .  

 " I dont think it will hurt you ,  baby .  You take it .  "  

I drank the cognac and felt it warm all the way 
down .  Rinaldi poured another glass .  He was quieter 
now .  He held up the glass .   " To your valorous wounds .  
To the silver medal .  Tell me ,  baby ,  when you lie here 
all the time in the hot weather dont you get excited  ?  "  

 " Sometimes .  "  

 " I cant imagine lying like that .  I would go crazy .  "  

 " You are crazy .  "  

 " I wish you were back .  No one to come in at night 
from adventures .  No one to make fun of .  No one to 
lend me money .  No blood brother and roommate .  
Why do you get yourself wounded ?  "  

 " You can make fun of the priest .  "  

 " That priest .  It isnt me that makes fun of him .  It 
is the captain .  I like him .  If you must have a priest 
have that priest .  Hes coming to see you .  He makes 
big preparations .  "  

 " I like him .  "  



A FAREWELL TO ARMS 71 

 " Oh ,  I knew it .  Sometimes I think you and he are 
a little that way .  You know .  "  

 " No ,  you dont .  "  

 " Yes ,  I do sometimes .  A little that way like the num -  
ber of the first regiment of the Brigata Ancona .  "  

 " Oh ,  go to hell .  "  

He stood up and put on his gloves .  

 " Oh I love to tease you ,  baby .  With your priest and 
your English girl ,  and really you are just like me under -  
neath .  "  

 " No ,  Im not .  "  

 " Yes ,  we are .  You are really an Italian .  All fire and 
smoke and nothing inside .  You only pretend to be 
American .  We are brothers and we love each other .  "  

 " Be good while Im gone ,  "  I said .  

 " I will send Miss Barkley .  You are better with her 
without me .  You are purer and sweeter .  "  

 " Oh ,  go to hell .  "  

 " I will send her .  Your lovely cool goddess .  English 
goddess .  My God what would a man do with a woman 
like that except worship her  ?  What else is an English -  
woman good for ?  "  

 " You are an ignorant foul - mouthed dago .  "  

 " A what ?  "  

 " An ignorant wop .  "  

 " Wop .  You are a frozen - faced  .   .   .  wop .  "  

 " You are ignorant .  Stupid .  "  I saw that word 
pricked him and kept on .   " Uninformed .  Inexperi -  
enced ,  stupid from inexperience .  "  

 " Truly ?  I tell you something about your good wo -  
men .  Your goddesses .  There is only one difference be -  
tween taking a girl who has always been good and a 
woman .  With a girl it is painful .  Thats all I know .  "  



72 A FAREWELL TO ARMS 

He slapped the bed with his glove .   " And you never 
know if the girl will really like it .  "  

 " Dont get angry .  "  

 " Fm not angry .  I just tell you ,  baby ,  for your own 
good .  To save you trouble .  "  

 " Thats the only difference ?  "  

 " Yes .  But millions of fools like you dont know it .  "  

 " You were sweet to tell me .  "  

 " We wont quarrel ,  baby .  I love you too much .  But 
dont be a fool .  "  

 " No .  Ill be wise like you .  "  

 " Dont be angry ,  baby .  Laugh .  Take a drink .  I 
must go ,  really .  "  

 " Youre a good old boy .  "  

 " Now you see .  Underneath we are the same .  We 
are war brothers .  Kiss me good - by .  "  

 " Youre sloppy .  "  

 " No .  I am just more affectionate .  "  

I felt his breath come toward me .   " Good - by .  I 
come to see you again soon .  "  His breath went away .  
 " I wont kiss you if you dont want .  Ill send your 
English girl .  Good - by ,  baby .  The cognac is under the 
bed .  Get well soon .  "  

He was gone .  



CHAPTER XI 

It was dusk when the priest came .  They had brought 
the soup and afterward taken away the bowls and I was 
lying looking at the rows of beds and out the win -  
dow at the tree - top that moved a little in the evening 
breeze .  The breeze came in through the window and it 
was cooler with the evening .  The flies were on the ceil -  
ing now and on the electric light bulbs that hung on 
wires .  The lights were only turned on when some one 
was brought in at night or when something was being 
done .  It made me feel very young to have the dark 
come after the dusk and then remain .  It was like being 
put to bed after early supper .  The orderly came down 
between the beds and stopped .  Some one was with him .  
It was the priest .  He stood there small ,  brown - faced ,  
and embarrassed .  

 " How do you do ?  "  he asked .  He put some packages 
down by the bed ,  on the floor .  

 " All right ,  father .  "  

He sat down in the chair that had been brought for 
Rinaldi and looked out of the window embarrassedly .  
I noticed his face looked very tired .  

 " I can only stay a minute ,  "  he said .   " It is late .  "  

 " Its not late .  How is the mess ?  "  

He smiled .   " I am still a great joke ,  "  he sounded 
tired too .   " Thank God they are all well .  "  

 " I am so glad you are all right ,  "  he said .   " I hope 
you dont suffer .  "  He seemed very tired and I was not 
used to seeing him tired .  

 " Not any more .  "  

 " I miss you at the mess: "  
73 



74 A FAREWELL TO ARMS 

 " I wish I were there .  I always enjoyed our talk -  
ing .  "  

 " I brought you a few little things ,  "  he said .  He 
picked up the packages .   " This is mosquito netting .  
This is a bottle of vermouth .  You like vermouth ?  
These are English papers .  "  

 " Please open them .  "  

He was pleased and undid them .  I held the mosquito 
netting in my hands .  The vermouth he held up for me 
to see and then put it on the floor beside the bed .  I 
held up one of the sheaf of English papers .  I could 
read the headlines by turning it so the half - light from 
the window was on it .  It was The News of the World ,  

 " The others are illustrated ,  "  he said .  

 " It will be a great happiness to read them .  Where 
did you get them ?  "  

 " I sent for them to Mestre .  I will have more .  "  

 " You were very good to come ,  father .  Will you 
drink a glass of vermouth ?  "  

 " Thank you .  You keep it .  Its for you .  "  

 " No ,  drink a glass .  "  

 " All right .  I will bring you more then .  "  

The orderly brought the glasses and opened the bot -  
tle .  He broke off the cork and the end had to be shoved 
down into the bottle .  I could see the priest was dis -  
appointed but he said ,   " Thats all right .  Its no mat -  
ter .  "  

 " Heres to your health ,  father .  "  

 " To your better health .  "  

Afterward he held the glass in his hand and we 
looked at one another .  Sometimes we talked and were 
good friends but to - night it was difficult .  

 " Whats the matter ,  father ?  You seem very tired .  "  

 " I am tired but I have no right to be .  "  



A FAREWELL TO ARMS 75 

 " Its the heat .  "  

 " No .  This is only the Spring .  I feel very low .  "  

 " You have the war disgust .  "  

 " No .  But I hate the war .  "  

 " I dont enjoy it ,  "  I said .  He shook his head and 
looked out of the window .  

 " You do not mind it .  You do not see it .  You must 
forgive me .  I know you are wounded .  "  

 " That is an accident .  "  

 " Still even wounded you do not see it .  I can tell .  
I do not see it myself but I feel it a little .  "  

 " When I was wounded we were talking about it .  
Passini was talking .  "  

The priest put down the glass .  He was thinking 
about something else .  

 " I know them because I am like they are ,  "  he said .  

 " You are different though .  "  

 " But really I am like they are .  "  

 " The officers dont see anything .  "  

 " Some of them do .  Some are very delicate and feel 
worse than any of us .  "  

 " They are mostly different .  "  

 " It is not education or money .  It is something else .  
Even if they had education or money men like Passini 
would not wish to be officers .  I would not be an 
officer .  "  

 " You rank as an officer .  I am an officer .  "  

 " I am not really .  You are not even an Italian .  You 
are a foreigner .  But you are nearer the officers than 
you are to the men .  "  

 " What is the difference ?  "  

 " I cannot say it easily .  There are people who would 
make war .  In this country there are many like that .  
There are other people who would not make war .  "  



76 A FAREWELL TO ARMS 

 " But the first ones make them do it .  "  

 " Yes .  "  

 " And I help them .  "  

 " You are a foreigner .  You are a patriot .  "  

 " And the ones who would not make war ?  Can they 
stop it ?  "  

 " I do not know .  "  

He looked out of the window again .  I watched his 
face .  

 " Have they ever been able to stop it ?  "  

 " They are not organized to stop things and when 
they get organized their leaders sell them out .  "  

 " Then its hopeless ?  "  

 " It is never hopeless .  But sometimes I cannot hope .  
I try always to hope but sometimes I cannot .  "  

 " Maybe the war will be over .  "  

 " I hope so .  "  

 " What will you do then ?  "  

 " If it is possible I will return to the Abruzzi .  "  

His brown face was suddenly very happy .  

 " You love the Abruzzi  !  "  

 " Yes ,  I love it very much .  "  

 " You ought to go there then .  "  

 " I would be too happy .  If I could live there and 
love God and serve Him .  "  

 " And be respected ,  "  I said .  

 " Yes and be respected .  Why not ?  "  

 " No reason not .  You should be respected .  "  

 " It does not matter .  But there in my country it is 
understood that a man may love God .  It is not a dirty 
joke .  "  

 " I understand .  "  

He looked at me and smiled .  

 " You understand but you do not love God .  "  



A FAREWELL TO ARMS 77 

 " No .  "  

 " You do not love Him at all ?  "  he asked .  

 " I am afraid of him in the night sometimes .  "  

 " You should love Him .  "  

 " I dont love much .  "  

 " Yes ,  "  he said .   " You do .  What you tell me about 
in the nights .  That is not love .  That is only passion 
and lust .  When you love you wish to do things for .  
You wish to sacrifice for .  You wish to serve .  "  

 " I dont love .  "  

 " You will .  I know you will .  Then you will be 
happy .  "  

 " Im happy .  Ive always been happy .  "  

 " It is another thing .  You cannot know about it un -  
less you have it .  "  

 " Well ,  "  I said .   " If I ever get it I will tell you .  "  

 " I stay too long and talk too much .  "  He was wor -  
ried that he really did .  

 " No .  Dont go .  How about loving women ?  If I 
really loved some woman would it be like that ?  "  

 " I dont know about that .  I never loved any woman .  "  

 " What about your mother ?  "  

 " Yes ,  I must have loved my mother .  "  

 " Did you always love God ?  "  

 " Ever since I was a little boy .  "  

 " Well ,  "  I said .  I did not know what to say .   " You 
are a fine ooy ,  "  I said .  

 " I am a boy ,  "  he said .   " But you call me father .  "  

 " Thats politeness .  "  

He smiled .  

 " I must go ,  really ,  "  he said .   " You do not want me 
for anything ?  "  he asked hopefully .  

 " No .  Just to talk .  "  

 " I will take your greetings to the mess .  "  



78 A FAREWELL TO ARMS 

 " Thank you for the many fine presents .  "  

 " Nothing .  "  

 " Come and see me again .  "  

 " Yes .  Good - by ,  "  he patted my hand .  

 " So long ,  "  I said in dialect .  

 " Ciaou ,  "  he repeated .  

It was dark in the room and the orderly ,  who had sat 
by the foot of the bed ,  got up and went out with him .  
I liked him very much and I hoped he would get back 
to the Abruzzi some time .  He had a rotten life in the 
mess and he was fine about it but I thought how he 
would be in his own country .  At Capracotta ,  he had 
told me ,  there were trout in the stream below the town .  
It was forbidden to play the flute at night .  When the 
young men serenaded only the flute was forbidden .  
Why ,  I had asked .  Because it was bad for the girls to 
hear the flute at night .  The peasants all called you 
 " Don "  and when you met them they took off their hats .  
His father hunted every day and stopped to eat at the 
houses of peasants .  They were always honored .  For a 
foreigner to hunt he must present a certificate that he 
had never been arrested .  There were bears on the Gran 
Sasso Dltalia but it was a long way .  Aquila was a 
fine town .  It was cool in the summer at night and the 
spring in Abruzzi was the most beautiful in Italy .  But 
what was lovely was the fall to go hunting through the 
chestnut woods .  The birds were all good because they 
fed on grapes and you never took a lunch because the 
peasants were always honored if you would eat with 
them at their houses .  After a while I went to sleep .  



CHAPTER XII 

The room was long with windows on the right - hand 
side and a door at the far end that went into the dress -  
ing room .  The row of beds that mine was in faced the 
windows and another row ,  under the windows ,  faced 
the wall .  If you lay on your left side you could see the 
dressing - room door .  There was another door at the far 
end that people sometimes came in by .  If any one were 
going to die they put a screen around the bed so you 
could not see them die ,  but only the shoes and puttees 
of doctors and men nurses showed under the bottom of 
the screen and sometimes at the end there would be 
whispering .  Then the priest would come out from be -  
hind the screen and afterward the men nurses would go 
back behind the screen to come out again carrying the 
one who was dead with a blanket over him down the 
corridor between the beds and some one folded the 
screen and took it away .  

That morning the major in charge of the ward asked 
me if I felt that I could travel the next day .  I said I 
could .  He said then they would ship me out early in 
the morning .  He said I would be better off making the 
trip now before it got too hot .  

When they lifted you up out of bed to carry you into 
the dressing room you could look out of the window 
and see the new graves in the garden .  A soldier sat out -  
side the door that opened onto the garden making 
crosses and painting on them the names ,  rank ,  and regi -  
ment of the men who were buried in the garden .  He 
also ran errands for the ward and in his spare time 
made me a cigarette lighter out of an empty Austrian 

79 



80 A FAREWELL TO ARMS 

rifle cartridge .  The doctors were very nice and seemed 
very capable .  They were anxious to ship me to Milan 
where there were better X - ray facilities and where ,  af -  
ter the operation ,  I could take mechano - therapy .  I 
wanted to go to Milan too .  They wanted to get us all 
out and back as far as possible because all the beds were 
needed for the offensive ,  when it should start .  

The night before I left the field hospital Rinaldi came 
in to see me with the major from our mess .  They said 
that I would go to an American hospital in Milan that 
had just been installed .  Some American ambulance 
units were to be sent down and this hospital would look 
after them and any other Americans on service in Italy .  
There were many in the Red Cross .  The States had de -  
clared war on Germany but not on Austria .  

The Italians were sure America would declare war on 
Austria too and they were very excited about any 
Americans coming down ,  even the Red Cross .  They 
asked me if I thought President Wilson would declare 
war on Austria and I said it was only a matter of days .  
I did not know what we had against Austria but it 
seemed logical that they should declare war on her if 
they did on Germany .  They asked me if we would 
declare war on Turkey .  I said that was doubtful .  
Turkey ,  I said ,  was our national bird but the joke trans -  
lated so badly and they were so puzzled and suspicious 
that I said yes ,  we would probably declare war on Tur -  
key .  And on Bulgaria ?  We had drunk several glasses 
of brandy and I said yes by God on Bulgaria too and on 
Japan .  But ,  they said ,  Japan is an ally of England .  
You cant trust the bloody English .  The Japanese want 
Hawaii ,  I said .  Where is Hawaii  ?  It is in the Pacific 
Ocean .  Why do the Japanese want it ?  They dont real -  
ly want it ,  I said .  That is all talk .  The Japanese are a 



A FAREWELL TO ARMS 81 

wonderful little people fond of dancing and light wines .  
Like the French ,  said the major .  We will get Nice and 
Savoia from the French .  We will get Corsica and all 
the Adriatic coast - line ,  Rinaldi said .  Italy will return 
to the splendors of Rome ,  said the major .  I dont like 
Rome ,  I said .  It is hot and full of fleas .  You dont 
like Rome ?  Yes ,  I love Rome .  Rome is the mother of 
nations .  I will never forget Romulus suckling the 
Tiber .  What  ?  Nothing .  Lets all go to Rome .  Lets 
go to Rome to - night and never come back .  Rome is a 
beautiful city ,  said the major .  The mother and father 
of nations ,  I said .  Roma is feminine ,  said Rinaldi .  It 
cannot be the father .  Who is the father ,  then ,  the Holy 
Ghost  ?  Dont blaspheme .  I wasnt blaspheming ,  I was 
asking for information .  You are drunk ,  baby .  Who 
made me drunk ?  I made you drunk ,  said the major .  
I made you drunk because I love you and because 
America is in the war .  Up to the hilt ,  I said .  You go 
away in the morning ,  baby ,  Rinaldi said .  To Rome ,  I 
said .  No ,  to Milan .  To Milan ,  said the major ,  to the 
Crystal Palace ,  to the Cova ,  to Camparis ,  to Biffis ,  to 
the galleria .  You lucky boy .  To the Gran Italia I said ,  
where I will borrow money from George .  To the Scala ,  
said Rinaldi .  You will go to the Scala .  Every night ,  
I said .  You wont be able to afford it every night ,  said 
the major .  

The tickets are very expensive .  I will draw a sight 
draft on my grandfather ,  I said .  A what ?  A sight 
draft .  He has to pay or I go to jail .  Mr .  Cunningham 
at the bank does it .  I live by sight drafts .  Can a grand -  
father jail a patriotic grandson who is dying that Italy 
may live  ?  Live the American Garibaldi ,  said Rinaldi .  
Viva the sight drafts ,  I said .  We must be quiet ,  said 
the major .  Already we have been asked many times to 



82 A FAREWELL TO ARMS 

be quiet Do you go to - morrow really ,  Federico ?  He 
goes to the American hospital I tell you ,  Rinaldi said .  
To the beautiful nurses .  Not the nurses with beards 
of the field hospital .  Yes ,  yes ,  said the major ,  I know 
he goes to the American hospital .  I dont mind their 
beards ,  I said .  If any man wants to raise a beard let 
him .  Why dont you raise a beard ,  Signor Maggiore ?  
It could not go in a gas mask .  Yes it could .  Anything 
can go in a gas mask .  Ive vomited into a gas mask .  
Dont be so loud ,  baby ,  Rinaldi said .  We all know you 
have been at the front .  Oh ,  you fine baby ,  what will I 
do while you are gone ?  We must go ,  said the major .  
This becomes sentimental .  Listen ,  I have a surprise for 
you .  Your English .  You know ?  The English you go 
to see every night at their hospital ?  She is going to 
Milan too .  She goes with another to be at the Ameri -  
can hospital .  They had not got nurses yet from Amer -  
ica .  I talked to - day with the head of their riparto .  
They have too many women here at the front .  They 
send some back .  How do you like that ,  baby ?  All 
right .  Yes  ?  You go to live in a big city and have your 
English there to cuddle you .  Why dont I get wounded  ?  
Maybe you will ,  I said .  We must go ,  said the major .  
We drink and make noise and disturb Federico .  Dont 
go .  Yes ,  we must go .  Good - by .  Good luck .  Many 
things .  Ciaou .  Ciaou .  Ciaou .  Come back quickly ,  
baby .  Rinaldi kissed me .  You smell of lysol .  Good -  
by ,  baby .  Good - by .  Many things .  The major patted 
my shoulder .  They tiptoed out .  I found I was quite 
drunk but went to sleep .  

The next day in the morning we left for Milan and 
arrived forty - eight hours later .  It was a bad trip .  We 
were sidetracked for a long time this side of Mestre 



A FAREWELL TO ARMS 83 

and children came and peeked in .  I got a little boy to 
go for a bottle of cognac but he came back and said he 
could only get grappa .  I told him to get it and when it 
came I gave him the change and the man beside me and 
I got drunk and slept until past Vicenza where I woke 
up and was very sick on the floor .  It did not matter 
because the man on that side had been very sick on the 
floor several times before .  Afterward I thought I could 
not stand the thirst and in the yards outside of Verona 
I called to a soldier who was walking up and down 
beside the train and he got me a drink of water .  I 
woke Georgetti ,  the other boy who was drunk ,  and of -  
fered him some water .  He said to pour it on his shoul -  
der and went back to sleep .  The soldier would not take 
the penny I offered him and brought me a pulpy orange .  
I sucked on that and spit out the pith and watched the 
soldier pass up and down past a freight - car outside and 
after a while the train gave a jerk and started .  



BOOK II 



CHAPTER XIII 

We got into Milan early in the morning and they 
unloaded us in the freight yard .  An ambulance took 
me to the American hospital .  Riding in the ambulance 
on a stretcher I could not tell what part of town we 
were passing through but when they unloaded the 
stretcher I saw a market - place and an open wine shop 
with a girl sweeping out .  They were watering the 
street and it smelled of the early morning .  They put 
the stretcher down and went in .  The porter came out 
with them .  He had gray mustaches ,  wore a doormans 
cap and was in his shirt sleeves .  The stretcher would 
not go into the elevator and they discussed whether it 
was better to lift me off the stretcher and go up in the 
elevator or carry the stretcher up the stairs .  I listened 
to them discussing it .  They decided on the elevator .  
They lifted me from the stretcher .   " Go easy ,  "  I said .  
 " Take it softly .  "  

In the elevator we were crowded and as my legs bent 
the pain was very bad .   " Straighten out the legs ,  "  I 
said .  

 " We cant ,  Signor Tenente .  There isnt room .  "  The 
man who said this had his arm around me and my arm 
was around his neck .  His breath came in my face me -  
tallic with garlic and red wine .  

 " Be gentle ,  "  the other man said .  

 " Son of a bitch who isnt gentle  !  "  

 " Be gentle I say ,  "  the man with my feet repeated .  

I saw the doors of the elevator closed ,  and the grill 
shut and the fourth - floor button pushed by the porter .  

87 



88 A FAREWELL TO ARMS 

The porter looked worried .  The elevator rose slowly .  

 " Heavy ?  "  I asked the man with the garlic .  

 " Nothing ,  "  he said .  His face was sweating and he 
grunted .  The elevator rose steadily and stopped .  The 
man holding the feet opened the door and stepped out .  
We were on a balcony .  There were several doors with 
brass knobs .  The man carrying the feet pushed a but -  
ton that rang a bell .  We heard it inside the doors .  No 
one came .  Then the porter came up the stairs .  

 " Where are they ?  "  the stretcher - bearers asked .  

 " I dont know ,  "  said the porter .   " They sleep down 
stairs .  "  

 " Get somebody .  "  

The porter rang the bell ,  then knocked on the door ,  
then he opened the door and went in .  When he came 
back there was an elderly woman wearing glasses with 
him .  Her hair was loose and half -  falling and she wore 
a nurses dress .  

 " I cant understand ,  "  she said .   " I cant understand 
Italian .  "  

 " I can speak English ,  "  I said .   " They want to put me 
somewhere .  "  

 " None of the rooms are ready .  There isnt any pa -  
tient expected .  "  She tucked at her hair and looked at 
me near - sightedly .  

 " Show them any room where they can put me .  "  

 " I dont know ,  "  she said .   " Theres no patient ex -  
pected .  I couldnt put you in just any room .  "  

 " Any room will do ,  "  I said .  Then to the porter in 
Italian ,   " Find an empty room .  "  

 " They are all empty ,  "  said the porter .   " You are the 
first patient .  "  He held his cap in his hand and looked 
at the elderly nurse .  

 " For Christs sweet sake take me to some room .  "  



A FAREWELL TO ARMS 89 

The pain had gone on and 99 with the legs bent and I 
could feel it going in and out of the bone .  The porter 
went in the door ,  followed by the gray - haired woman ,  
then came hurrying back .   " Follow me ,  "  he said .  They 
carried me down a long hallway and into a room with 
drawn blinds .  It smelled of new furniture .  There was 
a bed and a big wardrobe with a mirror .  They laid me 
down on the bed .  

 " I cant put on sheets ,  "  the woman said .   " The sheets 
are locked up .  "  

I did not speak to her .   " There is money in my 
pocket ,  "  I said to the porter .   " In the buttoned - down 
pocket .  "  The porter took out the money .  The two 
stretcher - bearers stood beside the bed holding their 
caps .   " Give them five lire apiece and five lire for your -  
self .  My papers are in the other pocket .  You may give 
them to the nurse .  "  

The stretcher - bearers saluted and said thank you .  
 " Good - by ,  "  I said .   " And many thanks .  "  They saluted 
again and went out .  

 " Those papers ,  "  I said to the nurse ,   " describe my 
case and the treatment already given .  "  

The woman picked them up and looked at them 
through her glasses .  There were three papers and they 
were folded .   " I dont know what to do ,  "  she said .   " I 
cant read Italian .  I cant do anything without the 
doctors orders .  "  She commenced to cry and put the 
papers in her apron pocket .   " Are you an American ?  "  
she asked crying .  

 " Yes .  Please put the papers on the table by the bed .  "  

It was dim and cool in the room .  As I lay on the 
bed I could see the big mirror on the other side of the 
room but could not see what it reflected .  The porter 
stood by the bed .  He had a nice face and was very 
kind .  



9 o A FAREWELL TO ARMS 

 " You can go ,  "  I said to him .   " You can go too ,  "  I 
said to the nurse .   " What is your name  ?  "  

 " Mrs .  Walker .  "  

 " You can go ,  Mrs .  Walker .  I think I will go to 
sleep .  "  

I was alone in the room .  It was cool and did not 
smell like a hospital .  The mattress was firm and com -  
fortable and I lay without moving ,  hardly breathing ,  
happy in feeling the pain lessen .  After a while I wanted 
a drink of water and found the bell on a cord by the 
bed and rang it but nobody came .  I went to sleep .  

When I woke I looked around .  There was sunlight 
coming in through the shutters .  I saw the big armoire ,  
the bare walls ,  and two chairs .  My legs in the dirty 
bandages ,  stuck straight out in the bed .  I was careful 
not to move them .  I was thirsty and I reached for the 
bell and pushed the button .  I heard the door open and 
looked and it was a nurse .  She looked young and 
pretty .  

 " Good - morning ,  "  I said .  

 " Good - morning ,  "  she said and came over to the bed .  
 " We havent been able to get the doctor .  Hes gone to 
Lake Como .  No one knew there was a patient coming .  
Whats wrong with you anyway ?  "  

 " Im wounded .  In the legs and feet and my head 
is hurt .  "  

 " Whats your name ?  "  

 " Henry .  Frederic Henry .  "  

 " Ill wash you up .  But we cant do anything  . to the 
dressings until the doctor comes .  "  

 " Is Miss Barkley here ?  "  

 " No .  Theres no one by that name here .  "  

 " Who was the woman who cried when I came in ?  "  

The nurse laughed .   " Thats Mrs .  Walker .  She was 



A FAREWELL TO ARMS 91 

on night duty and shed been asleep .  She wasnt ex -  
pecting any one .  "  

While we were talking she was undressing me ,  and 
when I was undressed ,  except for the bandages ,  she 
washed me ,  very gently and smoothly .  The washing 
felt very good .  There was a bandage on my head but 
she washed all around the edge .  

 " Where were you wounded ?  "  

 " On the Isonzo north of Plava .  "  

 " Where is that ?  "  

 " North of Gorizia .  "  

I could see that none of the places meant anything 
to her .  

 " Do you have a lot of pain ?  "  

 " No .  Not much now .  "  

She put a thermometer in my mouth .  

 " The Italians put it under the arm ,  "  I said .  

 " Dont talk .  "  

When she took the thermometer out she read it and 
then shook it .  

 " Whats the temperature ?  "  

 " Youre not supposed to know that "  

 " Tell me what it is .  "  

 " Its almost normal .  "  

 " I never have any fever .  My legs are full of old iron 
too .  "  

 " What do you mean ?  "  

 " Theyre full of trench - mortar fragments ,  old screws 
and bed - springs and things .  "  

She shook her head and smiled .  

 " If you had any foreign bodies in your legs they 
would set up an inflammation and youd have fever .  "  

 " All right ,  "  I said .   " Well see what comes out .  "  

She went out of the room and came back with the 



92 A FAREWELL TO ARMS 

old nurse of the early morning .  Together they made 
the bed with me in it .  That was new to me and an 
admirable proceeding .  

 " Who is in charge here ?  "  

 " Miss Van Campen .  "  

 " How many nurses are there ?  "  

 " Just us two .  "  

 " Wont there be more ?  "  

 " Some more are coming .  "  

 " When will they get here ?  "  

 " I dont know .  You ask a great many questions for 
a sick boy .  "  

 " Im not sick ,  "  I said ,   " Im wounded .  "  

They had finished making the bed and I lay with a 
clean smooth sheet under me and another sheet over 
me .  Mrs .  Walker went out and came back with a 
pa jama jacket .  They put that on me and I felt very 
clean and dressed .  

 " Youre awfully nice to me ,  "  I said .  The nurse 
called Miss Gage giggled .   " Could I have a drink of 
water ?  "  I asked .  

 " Certainly .  Then you can have breakfast .  "  

 " I dont want breakfast .  Can I have the shutters 
opened please ?  "  

The light had been dim in the room and when the 
shutters were opened it was bright sunlight and I 
looked out on a balcony and beyond were the tile roofs 
of houses and chimneys .  I looked out over the tiled 
roofs and saw white clouds and the sky very blue .  

 " Dont you know when the other nurses are com -  
ing ?  "  

 " Why ?  Dont we take good care of you ?  "  

 " Youre very nice .  "  

 " Would you like to use the bedpan  ?  "  



A FAREWELL TO ARMS 93 

 " I might try .  "  

They helped me and held me up but it was not any 
use .  Afterward I lay and looked out the open doors 
onto the balcony .  

 " When does the doctor come ?  "  

 " When he gets back .  Weve tried to telephone to 
Lake Como for him .  "  

 " Arent there any other doctors ?  "  

 " Hes the doctor for the hospital .  "  

Miss Gage brought a pitcher of water and a glass .  I 
drank three glasses and then they left me and I looked 
out the window a while and went back to sleep .  I ate 
some lunch and in the afternoon Miss Van Campen ,  
the superintendent ,  came up to see me .  She did not 
like me and I did not like her .  She was small and 
neatly suspicious and too good for her position .  She 
asked many questions and seemed to think it was some -  
what disgraceful that I was with the Italians .  

 " Can I have wine with the meals ?  "  I asked her .  

 " Only if the doctor prescribes it .  "  

 " I cant have it until he comes ?  "  

 " Absolutely not .  "  

 " You plan on having him come eventually ?  "  

 " Weve telephoned him at Lake Como .  "  

She went out and Miss Gage came back .  

 " Why were you rude to Miss Van Campen ?  "  she 
asked after she had done something for me very skil -  
fully .  

 " I didnt mean to be .  But she was snooty .  "  

 " She said you were domineering and rude .  "  

 " I wasnt .  But whats the idea of a hospital with -  
out a doctor  ?  "  

 " Hes coming .  Theyve telephoned for him to Lake 
Como .  "  



94 A FAREWELL TO ARMS 

 " What does he do there ?  Swim ?  "  
 " No .  He has a clinic there .  "  
 " Why dont they get another doctor ?  "  
 " Hush .  Hush .  Be a good boy and hell come .  "  
I sent for the porter and when he came I told him in 
Italian to get me a bottle of Cinzano at the wine shop ,  
a fiasco of chianti and the evening papers .  He went 
away and brought them wrapped in newspaper ,  un -  
wrapped them and ,  when I asked him to ,  drew the corks 
and put the wine and vermouth under the bed .  They 
left me alone and I lay in bed and read the papers 
awhile ,  the news from the front ,  and the list of dead 
officers with their decorations and then reached down 
and brought up the bottle of Cinzano and held it 
straight up on my stomach ,  the cool glass against my 
stomach ,  and took little drinks making rings on my 
stomach from holding the bottle there between drinks ,  
and watched it get dark outside over the roofs of the 
town .  The swallows circled around and I watched them 
and the night - hawks flying above the roofs and drank 
the Cinzano .  Miss Gage brought up a glass with some 
egg - nog in it .  I lowered the vermouth bottle to the 
other side of the bed when she came in .  

 " Miss Van Campen had some sherry put in this ,  "  
she said .   " You shouldnt be rude to her .  Shes not 
young and this hospital is a big responsibility for her .  
Mrs .  Walkers too old and shes no use to her .  "  

 " Shes a splendid woman ,  "  I said .   " Thank her very 
much .  "  

 " Im going to bring your supper right away .  "  
 " Thats all right ,  "  I said .   " Im not hungry .  "  
When she brought the tray and put it on the bed 
table I thanked her and ate a little of the supper .  After -  
ward it was dark outside and I could see the beams of 



A FAREWELL TO ARMS 95 

the search - lights moving in the sky .  I watched for a 
while and then went to sleep .  I slept heavily except 
once I woke sweating and scared and then went back 
to sleep trying to stay outside of my dream .  I woke 
for good long before it was light and heard roosters 
crowing and stayed on awake until it began to be light .  
I was tired and once it was really light I went back to 
sleep again .  



CHAPTER XIV 

It was bright sunlight in the room when I woke .  I 
thought I was back at the front and stretched out in 
bed .  My legs hurt me and I looked down at them still 
in the dirty bandages ,  and seeing them knew where I 
was .  I reached up for the bell - cord and pushed the 
button .  I heard it buzz down the hall and then some 
one coming on rubber soles along the hall .  It was Miss 
Gage and she looked a little older in the bright sun -  
light and not so pretty .  

 " Good morning ,  "  she said .   " Did you have a good 
night ?  "  

 " Yes .  Thanks very much ,  "  I said .   " Can I have a 
barber ?  "  

 " I came in to see you and you were asleep with this 
in the bed with you .  "  

She opened the armoire door and held up the ver -  
mouth bottle .  It was nearly empty .   " I put the other 
bottle from under the bed in there too ,  "  she said .  
 " Why didnt you ask me for a glass ?  "  

 " I thought maybe you wouldnt let me have it .  "  

 " Id have had some with you .  "  

 " Youre a fine girl .  "  

 " It isnt good for you to drink alone ,  "  she said .  
 " You mustnt do it .  "  

 " All right .  "  

 " Your friend Miss Barkleys come ,  "  she said ,  

 " Really ?  "  

 " Yes .  I dont like her .  "  

 " You will like her .  Shes awfully nice .  "  
96 



A FAREWELL TO ARMS 97 

She shook her head .   " Im sure shes fine .  Can you 
move just a little to this side ?  Thats fine .  Ill clean 
you up for breakfast .  "  She washed me with a cloth 
and soap and warm water .   " Hold your shoulder up ,  "  
she said .   " Thats fine .  "  

 " Can I have the barber before breakfast ?  "  

Til send the porter for him .  "  She went out and 
came back .   " Hes gone for him ,  "  she said and dipped 
the cloth she held in the basin of water .  

The barber came with the porter .  He was a man of 
about fifty with an upturned mustache .  Miss Gage 
was finished with me and went out and the barber 
lathered my face and shaved .  He was very solemn and 
refrained from talking .  

 " Whats the matter  ?  Dont you know any news  ?  "  I 
asked .  

 " What news ?  "  

 " Any news .  Whats happened in the town ?  "  

 " It is time of war ,  "  he said .   " The enemys ears are 
everywhere .  "  

I looked up at him .   " Please hold your face still ,  "  he 
said and went on shaving .   " I will tell nothing .  "  

 " Whats the matter with you ?  "  I asked .  

 " I am an Italian .  I will not communicate with the 
enemy .  "  

I let it go at that .  If he was crazy ,  the sooner I could 
get out from under the razor the better .  Once I tried 
to get a good look at him .   " Beware ,  "  he said .   " The 
razor is sharp .  "  

I paid him when it was over and tipped him half a 
lira .  He returned the coins .  

 " I will not .  I am not at the front .  But I am an 
Italian .  "  

 " Get the hell out of here .  "  



98 A FAREWELL TO ARMS 

 " With your permission ,  "  he said and wrapped his 
razors in newspaper .  He went out leaving the five 
copper coins on the table beside the bed .  I rang the 
bell .  Miss Gage came in .   " Would you ask the porter 
to come please ?  "  

 " All right .  "  

The porter came in .  He was trying to keep from 
laughing .  

 " Is that barber crazy ?  "  

 " No ,  signorino .  He made a mistake .  He doesnt 
understand very well and he thought I said you were 
an Austrian officer .  "  

 " Oh ,  "  I said .  

 " Ho ho ho ,  "  the porter laughed .   " He was funny .  
One move from you he said and he would have   "  he 
drew his forefinger across his throat .  

 " Ho ho ho ,  "  he tried to keep from laughing .  
 " When I tell him you were not an Austrian .  Ho ho 
ho .  "  

 " Ho ho ho ,  "  I said bitterly .   " How funny if he 
would cut my throat .  Ho ho ho .  "  

 " No ,  signorino .  No ,  no .  He was so frightened of 
an Austrian .  Ho ho ho .  "  

 " Ho ho ho ,  "  I said .   " Get out of here .  "  

He went out and I heard him laughing in the hall .  
I heard some one coming down the hallway .  I looked 
toward the door .  It was Catherine Barkley .  

She came in the room and over to the bed .  

 " Hello ,  darling ,  "  she said .  She looked fresh and 
young and very beautiful .  I thought I had never seen 
any one so beautiful .  

 " Hello ,  "  I said .  When I saw her I was in love with 
her .  Everything turned over inside of me .  She 
looked toward the door ,  saw there was no one ,  then she 



A FAREWELL TO ARMS 99 

sat on the side of the bed and leaned over and kissed 
me .  I pulled her down and kissed her and felt her 
heart beating .  

 " You sweet ,  "  I said .   " Werent you wonderful to 
come here ?  "  

 " It wasnt very hard .  It may be hard to stay .  "  
 " Youve got to stay ,  "  I said .   " Oh ,  youre wonder -  
ful .  "  I was crazy about her .  I could not believe she 
was really there and held her tight to me .  

 " You mustnt ,  "  she said .   " Youre not well enough .  "  

 " Yes ,  I am .  Come on .  "  

 " No .  Youre not strong enough .  "  

 " Yes .  I am .  Yes .  Please .  "  

 " You do love me ?  "  

 " I really love you .  Im crazy about you .  Come on 
please .  "  

 " Feel our hearts beating .  "  

 " I dont care about our hearts .  I want you .  Im 
just mad about you .  "  

 " You really love me ?  "  

 " Dont keep on saying that .  Come on .  Please .  
Please ,  Catherine .  "  

 " All right but only for a minute .  "  

 " All right ,  "  I said .   " Shut the door .  "  

 " You cant .  You shouldnt .  "  

 " Come on .  Dont talk .  Please come on .  "  

Catherine sat in a chair by the bed .  The door was 

open into the hall .  The wildness was gone and I felt 

finer than I had ever felt .  

She asked ,   " Now do you believe I love you ?  "  
 " Oh ,  youre lovely ,  "  I said .   " Youve got to stay .  

They cant send you away .  Im crazy in love with 

you .  "  



ioo A FAREWELL TO ARMS 

Well have to be awfully careful .  That was just 
madness .  We cant do that "  

 " We can at night .  "  

 " Well have to be awfully careful .  Youll have to be 
careful in front of other people .  "  

 " I will .  "  

 " Youll have to be .  Youre sweet .  You do love me ,  
dont you ?  "  

 " Dont say that again .  You dont know what that 
does to me .  "  

 " Ill be careful then .  I dont want to do anything 
more to you .  I have to go now ,  darling ,  really .  "  

 " Come back right away .  "  

 " Ill come when I can .  "  

 " Good - by .  "  

 " Good - by ,  sweet .  "  

She went out .  God knows I had not wanted to fall 
in love with her .  I had not wanted to fall in love with 
any one .  But God knows I had and I lay on the bed 
in the room of the hospital in Milan and all sorts of 
things went through my head but I felt wonderful and 
finally Miss Gage came in .  

 " The doctors coming ,  "  she said .   " He telephoned 
from Lake Como .  "  

 " When does he get here ?  "  

 " Hell be here this afternoon .  "  






CHAPTER XV 



Nothing happened until afternoon .  The doctor 
was a thin quiet little man who seemed disturbed by 
the war .  He took out a number of small steel splinters 
from my thighs with delicate and refined distaste .  He 
used a local anaesthetic called something or other  " snow/ 
which froze the tissue and avoided pain until the probe ,  
the scalpel or the forceps got below the frozen portion .  
The anaesthetized area was clearly defined by the pa -  
tient and after a time the doctors fragile delicacy was 
exhausted and he said it would be better to have an 
X - ray .  Probing was unsatisfactory ,  he said .  

The X - ray was taken at the Ospedale Maggiore and 
the doctor who did it was excitable ,  efficient and cheer -  
ful .  It was arranged by holding up the shoulders ,  that 
the patient should see personally some of the larger 
foreign bodies through the machine .  The plates were 
to be sent over .  The doctor requested me to write in 
his pocket notebook ,  my name ,  and regiment and some 
sentiment .  He declared that the foreign bodies were 
ugly ,  nasty ,  brutal .  The Austrians were sons of bitches .  
How many had I killed ?  I had not killed any but I 
was anxious to please  and I said I had killed plenty .  
Miss Gage was with me and the doctor put his arm 
around her and said she was more beautiful than Cleo -  
patra .  Did she understand that ?  Cleopatra the for -  
mer queen of Egypt .  Yes ,  by God she was .  We re -  
turned to the little hospital in the ambulance and after 
a while and much lifting I was upstairs and in bed 
again .  The plates came that afternoon ,  the doctor had 
said by God he would have them that afternoon and he 



102 A FAREWELL TO ARMS 

did .  Catherine Barkley showed them to me .  They 
were in red envelopes and she took them out of the en -  
velopes and held them up to the light and we both 
looked .  

 " Thats your right leg ,  "  she said ,  then put the plate 
back in the envelope .   " This is your left .  "  

 " Put them away ,  "  I said ,   " and come over to the 
bed .  "  

 " I cant ,  "  she said .   " I just brought them in for a 
second to show you .  "  

She went out and I lay there .  It was a hot after -  
noon and I was sick of lying in bed .  I sent the porter 
for the papers ,  all the papers he could get .  

Before he came back three doctors came into the room .  
I have noticed that doctors who fail in the practice of 
medicine have a tendency to seek one anothers com -  
pany and aid in consultation .  A doctor who cannot 
take out your appendix properly will recommend to 
you a doctor who will be unable to remove your tonsils 
with success .  These were three such doctors .  

 " This is the young man ,  "  said the house doctor with 
the delicate hands .  

 " How do you do ?  "  said the tall gaunt doctor with 
the beard .  The third doctor ,  who carried the X - ray 
plates in their red envelopes ,  said nothing .  

 " Remove the dressings ?  "  questioned the bearded 
doctor .  

 " Certainly .  Remove the dressings ,  please ,  nurse ,  "  
the house doctor said to Miss Gage .  Miss Gage re -  
moved the dressings .  I looked down at the legs .  At 
the field hospital they had the look of not too freshly 
ground hamburger steak .  Now they were crusted and 
the knee was swollen and discolored and the calf 
sunken but there was no pus .  



A FAREWELL TO ARMS 103 

 " Very clean/ said the house doctor .   " Very clean 
and nice .  "  

 " Um ,  "  said the doctor with the beard .  The third 
doctor looked over the house doctors shoulder .  

 " Please move the knee ,  "  said the bearded doctor .  

 " I cant .  "  

 " Test the articulation ?  "  the bearded doctor ques -  
tioned .  He had a stripe beside the three stars on his 
sleeve .  That meant he was a first captain .  

 " Certainly ,  "  the house doctor said .  Two of them 
took hold of my right leg very gingerly and bent it .  

 " That hurts ,  "  I said .  

 " Yes .  Yes .  A little further ,  doctor .  "  

 " Thats enough .  Thats as far as it goes ,  "  I said .  

 " Partial articulation ,  "  said the first captain .  He 
straightened up .   " May I see the plates again ,  please ,  
doctor ?  "  The third doctor handed him one of the 
plates .   " No .  The left leg ,  please .  "  

 " That is the left leg ,  doctor .  "  

 " You are right .  I was looking from a different an -  
gle .  "  He returned the plate .  The other plate he exam -  
ined for some time .   " You see ,  doctor ?  "  he pointed to 
one of the foreign bodies which showed spherical and 
clear against the light .  They examined the plate for 
some time .  

 " Only one thing I can say ,  "  the first captain with the 
beard said .   " It is a question of time .  Three months ,  
six months probably .  "  

 " Certainly the synovial fluid must re - form .  "  

 " Certainly .  It is a question of time .  I could not 
conscientiously open a knee like that before the projec -  
tile was encysted .  "  

 " I agree with you ,  doctor .  "  

 " Six months for what  ?  "  I asked .  



io 4 A FAREWELL TO ARMS 

 " Six months for the projectile to encyst before the 
knee can be opened safely .  "  

 " I dont believe it ,  "  I said .  

 " Do you want to keep your knee ,  young man ?  "  

 " No ,  "  I said .  

 " What ?  "  

 " I want it cut off ,  "  I said ,   " so I can wear a hook on 
it .  "  

 " What do you mean ?  A hook ?  "  

 " He is joking ,  "  said the house doctor .  He patted 
my shoulder very delicately .   " He wants to keep his 
knee .  This is a very brave young man .  He has been 
proposed for the silver medal of valor .  "  

 " All my felicitations ,  "  said the first captain .  He 
shook my hand .   " I can only say that to be on the safe 
side you should wait at least six months before open -  
ing such a knee .  You are welcome of course to an -  
other opinion .  "  

 " Thank you very much ,  "  I said .   " I value your 
opinion .  "  

The first captain looked at his watch .  

 " We must go ,  "  he said .   " All my best wishes .  "  

 " All my best wishes and many thanks ,  "  I said .  I 
shook hands with the third doctor ,   " Capitano Varini  
Tenente Enry ,  "  and they all three went out of the room .  

 " Miss Gage ,  "  I called .  She came in .   " Please ask 
the house doctor to come back a minute .  "  

He came in holding his cap and stood by the bed .  
 " Did you wish to see me ?  "  

 " Yes .  I cant wait six months to be operated on .  
My God ,  doctor ,  did you ever stay in bed six months  ?  "  

 " You wont be in bed all the time .  You must first 
have the wounds exposed to the sun .  Then afterward 
you can be on crutches .  "  



A FAREWELL TO ARMS 105 

 " For six months and then have an operation ?  "  

 " That is the safe way .  The foreign bodies must be 
allowed to encyst and the synovial fluid will re - form .  
Then it will be safe to open up the knee .  "  

 " Do you really think yourself I will have to wait 
that long ?  "  

 " That is the safe way .  "  

 " Who is that first captain ?  "  

 " He is a very excellent surgeon of Milan .  "  

 " Hes a first captain ,  isnt he ?  "  

 " Yes ,  but he is an excellent surgeon .  "  

 " I dont want my leg fooled with by a first captain .  
If he was any good he would be made a major .  I 
know what a first captain is ,  doctor .  "  

 " He is an excellent surgeon and I would rather have 
his judgment than any surgeon I know .  "  

 " Could another surgeon see it ?  "  

 " Certainly if you wish .  But I would take Dr .  Va -  
rellas opinion myself .  "  

 " Could you ask another surgeon to come and see 
it ?  "  

 " I will ask Valentini to come .  "  

 " Who is he ?  "  

 " He is a surgeon of the Ospedale Maggiore .  "  

 " Good .  I appreciate it very much .  You understand ,  
doctor ,  I couldnt stay in bed six months .  "  

 " You would not be in bed .  You would first take a 
sun cure .  Then you could have light exercise .  Then 
when it was encysted we would operate .  "  

 " But I cant wait six months .  "  

The doctor spread his delicate fingers on the cap he 
held and smiled .   " You are in such a hurry to get back 
to the front ?  "  

 " Why not ?  "  



106 A FAREWELL TO ARMS 

 " It is very beautiful ,  "  he said .   " You are a noble 
young man .  "  He stooped over and kissed me very del -  
icately on the forehead .   " I will send for Valentini .  
Do not worry and excite yourself .  Be a good boy .  "  

 " Will you have a drink ?  "  I asked .  

 " No thank you .  I never drink alcohol .  "  

 " Just have one .  "  I rang for the porter to bring 
glasses .  

 " No .  No thank you .  They are waiting for me .  "  

 " Good - by ,  "  I said .  

 " Good - by .  "  

Two hours later Dr .  Valentini came into the room .  
He was in a great hurry and the points of his mustache 
stood straight up .  He was a major ,  his face was 
tanned and he laughed all the time .  

 " How did you do it ,  this rotten thing ?  "  he asked .  
 " Let me see the plates .  Yes .  Yes .  Thats it .  You look 
healthy as a goat .  Whos the pretty girl ?  Is she your 
girl ?  I thought so .  Isnt this a bloody war ?  How 
does that feel  ?  You are a fine boy .  Ill make you bet -  
ter than new .  Does that hurt ?  You bet it hurts .  
How they love to hurt you ,  these doctors .  What have 
they done for you so far ?  Cant that girl talk Italian ?  
She should learn .  What a lovely girl .  I could teach 
her .  I will be a patient here myself .  No ,  but I will do 
all your maternity work free .  Does she understand 
that  ?  She will make you a fine boy .  A fine blonde like 
she is .  Thats fine .  Thats all right .  What a lovely 
girl .  Ask her if she eats supper with me .  No I wont 
take her away from you .  Thank you .  Thank you very 
much ,  Miss .  Thats all .  "  

 " Thats all I want to know .  "  He patted me on the 
shoulder .   " Leave the dressings off .  "  



A FAREWELL TO ARMS 107 

 " Will you have a drink ,  Dr .  Valentini ?  "  
 " A drink ?  Certainly .  I will have ten drinks .  
Where are they ?  "  

 " In the armoire .  Miss Barkley will get the bottle .  "  
 " Cheery oh .  Cheery oh to you ,  Miss .  What a 
lovely girl .  I will bring you better cognac than that .  "  
He wiped his mustache .  

 " When do you think it can be operated on ?  "  
 " To - morrow morning .  Not before .  Your stomach 
must be emptied .  You must be washed out .  I will see 
the old lady downstairs and leave instructions .  Good -  
by .  I see you to - morrow .  Ill bring you better cognac 
than that .  You are very comfortable here .  Good - by .  
Until to - morrow .  Get a good sleep .  Ill see you 
early .  "  He waved from the doorway ,  his mustaches 
went straight up ,  his brown face was smiling .  There 
was a star in a box on his sleeve because he was a 
major .  



CHAPTER XVI 

That night a bat flew into the room through the 
open door that led onto the balcony and through which 
we watched the night over the roofs of the town .  It 
was dark in our room except for the small light of the 
night over the town and the bat was not frightened but 
hunted in the room as though he had been outside .  We 
lay and watched him and I do not think he saw us be -  
cause we lay so still .  After he went out we saw a 
searchlight come on and watched the beam move across 
the sky and then go off and it was dark again .  A 
breeze came in the night and we heard the men of the 
anti - aircraft gun on the next roof talking .  It was cool 
and they were putting on their capes .  I worried in 
the night about some one coming up but Catherine said 
they were all asleep .  Once in the night we went to 
sleep and when I woke she was not there but I heard 
her coming along the hall and the door opened and she 
came back to the bed and said it was all right she had 
been downstairs and they were all asleep .  She had 
been outside Miss Van Campens door and heard her 
breathing in her sleep .  She brought crackers and we 
ate them and drank some vermouth .  We were very 
hungry but she said that would all have to be gotten 
out of me in the morning .  I went to sleep again in the 
morning when it was light and when I was awake I 
found she was gone again .  She came in looking fresh 
and lovely and sat on the bed and the sun rose while I 
had the thermometer in my mouth and we smelled the 
dew on the roofs and then the coffee of the men at the 
gun on the next roof .  

108 



A FAREWELL TO ARMS 109 

 " I wish we could go for a walk ,  "  Catherine said .  
 " Id wheel you if we had a chair .  "  

 " How would I get into the chair ?  "  

 " Wed do it .  "  

 " We could go out to the park and have breakfast 
outdoors .  "  I looked out the open doorway .  

 " What well really do ,  "  she said ,   " is get you ready 
for your friend Dr .  Valentini .  "  

 " I thought he was grand .  "  

 " I didnt like him as much as you did .  But I imag -  
ine hes very good .  "  

 " Come back to bed ,  Catherine .  Please ,  "  I said .  

 " I cant .  Didnt we have a lovely night ?  "  

 " And can you be on night duty to - night ?  "  

 " I probably will .  But you wont want me .  "  

 " Yes ,  I will .  "  

 " No ,  you wont .  Youve never been operated on .  
You dont know how youll be .  "  

 " Ill be all right .  "  

 " Youll be sick and I wont be anything to you .  "  

 " Come back then now .  "  

 " No ,  "  she said .   " I have to do the chart ,  darling ,  
and fix you up .  "  

 " You dont really love me or youd come back 
again .  "  

 " Youre such a silly boy .  "  She kissed me .   " Thats 
all right for the chart .  Your temperatures always nor -  
mal .  Youve such a lovely temperature .  "  

 " Youve got a lovely everything .  "  

 " Oh no .  You have the lovely temperature .  Im aw -  
fully proud of your temperature .  "  

 " Maybe all our children will have fine temperatures .  "  

 " Our children will probably have beastly tempera -  
tures .  "  



no A FAREWELL TO ARMS 

 " What do you have to do to get me ready for Valen -  
tin !   ?  "  

 " Not much .  But quite unpleasant/ 

 " I wish you didnt have to do it .  "  

 " I dont .  I dont want any one else to touch you .  
Im silly .  I get furious if they touch you .  "  

 " Even Ferguson  ?  "  

 " Especially Ferguson and Gage and the other ,  
whats her name ?  "  

 " Walker ?  "  

 " Thats it .  Theyve too many nurses here now .  
There must be some more patients or theyll send us 
away .  They have four nurses now .  "  

 " Perhaps therell be some .  They need that many 
nurses .  Its quite a big hospital .  "  

 " I hope some will come .  What would I do if they 
sent me away ?  They will unless there are more pa -  
tients .  "  

 " Id go too .  "  

 " Dont be silly .  You cant go yet .  But get well 
quickly ,  darling ,  and we will go somewhere .  "  

 " And then what ?  "  

 " Maybe the war will be over .  It cant always go 
on .  "  

 " Ill get well ,  "  I said .   " Valentini will fix me .  "  

 " He should with those mustaches .  And ,  darling ,  
when youre going under the ether just think about 
something else  not us .  Because people get very 
blabby under an anaesthetic .  "  

 " What should I think about ?  "  

 " Anything .  Anything but us .  Think about your 
people .  Or even any other girl .  "  

 " No .  "  



A FAREWELL TO ARMS in 

 " Say your prayers then .  That ought to create a 
splendid impression/ 

 " Maybe I wont talk .  "  

 " Thats true .  Often people dont talk .  "  

 " I wont talk .  "  

 " Dont brag ,  darling .  Please dont brag .  Youre so 
sweet and you dont have to brag .  "  

 " I wont talk a word .  "  

 " Now youre bragging ,  darling .  You know you 
dont need to brag .  Just start your prayers or poetry or 
something when they tell you to breathe deeply .  Youll 
be lovely that way and Ill be so proud of you .  Im 
very proud of you anyway .  You have such a lovely 
temperature and you sleep like a little boy with your 
arm around the pillow and think its me .  Or is it some 
other girl ?  Some fine Italian girl ?  "  

 " Its you .  "  

 " Of course its me .  Oh I do love you and Valen -  
tini will make you a fine leg .  Im glad I dont have to 
watch it .  "  

 " And youll be on night duty to - night .  "  

 " Yes .  But you wont care .  "  

 " You wait and see .  "  

 " There ,  darling .  Now youre all clean inside and 
out .  Tell me .  How many people have you ever 
loved ?  "  

 " Nobody .  "  

 " Not me even ?  "  

 " Yes ,  you .  "  

 " How many others really ?  "  

 " None .  "  

 " How many have you  how do you say it ?   stayed 
with ?  "  

 " None .  "  



ii2 A FAREWELL TO ARMS 

 " Youre lying to me .  "  

 " Yes .  "  

 " Its all right .  Keep right on lying to me .  Thats 
what I want you to do .  Were they pretty ?  "  

 " I never stayed with any one .  "  

 " Thats right .  Were they very attractive ?  "  

 " I dont know anything about it .  "  

 " Youre just mine .  Thats true and youve never be -  
longed to any one else .  But I dont care if you have .  
Im not afraid of them .  But dont tell me about them .  
When a man stays with a girl when does she say how 
much it costs  ?  "  

 " I dont know .  "  

 " Of course not .  Does she say she loves him ?  Tell 
me that .  I want to know that .  "  

 " Yes .  If he wants her to .  "  

 " Does he say he loves her  ?  Tell me please .  Its im -  
portant .  "  

 " He does if he wants to .  "  

 " But you never did  ?  Really  ?  "  

 " No .  "  

 " Not really .  Tell me the truth ?  "  

 " No ,  "  I lied .  

 " You wouldnt ,  "  she said .   " I knew you wouldnt .  
Oh ,  I love you ,  darling .  "  

Outside the sun was up over the roofs and I could 
see the points of the cathedral with the sunlight on 
them .  I was clean inside and outside and waiting for 
the doctor .  

 " And thats it ?  "  Catherine said .   " She says just 
what he wants her to ?  "  

 " Not always .  "  

 " But I will .  Ill say just what you wish and Ill do 
what you wish and then you will never want any other 



A FAREWELL TO ARMS 113 

girls ,  will you ?  "  She looked at me very happily .   " Ill 
do what you want and say what you want and then Ill 
be a great success ,  wont I  ?  "  

 " Yes .  "  

 " What would you like me to do now that youre all 
ready ?  "  

 " Come to the bed again .  "  

 " All right .  Ill come .  "  

 " Oh ,  darling ,  darling ,  darling ,  "  I said .  

 " You see ,  "  she said .   " I do anything you want .  "  

 " Youre so lovely .  "  

 " Im afraid Im not very good at it yet .  "  

 " Youre lovely .  "  

 " I want what you want .  There isnt any me any 
more .  Just what you want .  "  

 " You sweet .  "  

 " Im good .  Arent I good ?  You dont want any 
other girls ,  do you ?  "  

 " No .  "  

 " You see ?  Im good .  I do what you want "  



CHAPTER XVII 

When I was awake after the operation I had not 
been away .  You do not go away .  They only choke 
you .  It is not like dying it is just a chemical choking 
so you do not feel ,  and afterward you might as well 
have been drunk except that when you throw up noth -  
ing comes but bile and you do not feel better after -  
ward .  I saw sandbags at the end of the bed .  They 
were on pipes that came out of the cast .  After a while 
I saw Miss Gage and she said ,   " How is it now ?  "  

 " Better ,  "  I said .  

 " He did a wonderful job on your knee .  "  

 " How long did it take ?  "  

 " Two hours and a half .  "  

 " Did I say anything silly ?  "  

 " Not a thing .  Dont talk .  Just be quiet .  "  

I was sick and Catherine was right .  It did not make 
any difference who was on night duty .  

There were three other patients in the hospital now ,  
a thin boy in the Red Cross from Georgia with mala -  
ria ,  a nice boy ,  also thin ,  from New York ,  with mala -  
ria and jaundice ,  and a fine boy who had tried to un -  
screw the fuse - cap from a combination shrapnel and 
high explosive shell for a souvenir .  This was a shrap -  
nel shell used by the Austrians in the mountains with a 
nose - cap which went on after the burst and exploded 
on contact .  

Catherine Barkley was greatly liked by the nurses 
because she would do night duty indefinitely .  She had 
quite a little work with the malaria people ,  the boy who 

114 



A FAREWELL TO ARMS 115 

had unscrewed the nose - cap was a friend of ours and 
never rang at night ,  unless it was necessary but be -  
tween the times of working we were together .  I loved 
her very much and she loved me .  I slept in the day -  
time and we wrote notes during the day when we were 
awake and sent them by Ferguson .  Ferguson was a 
fine girl .  I never learned anything about her except 
that she had a brother in the Fifty - Second Division 
and a brother in Mesopotamia and she was very good 
to Catherine Barkley .  

 " Will you come to our wedding ,  Fergy ?  "  I said to 
her once .  

 " Youll never get married .   ,  ,  

 " We will .  "  

 " No you wont .  "  

 " Why not ?  "  

 " Youll fight before youll marry .  "  

 " We never fight .  "  

 " Youve time yet .  "  

 " We dont fight .  "  

 " Youll die then .  Fight or die .  Thats what people 
do .  They dont marry .  "  

I reached for her hand .   " Dont take hold of me ,  "  
she said .   " Im not crying .  Maybe youll be all right 
you two .  But watch out you dont get her in trouble .  
You get her in trouble and Ill kill you .  "  

 " I wont get her in trouble .  "  

 " Well watch out then .  I hoge youll be all right .  
You have a good time .  "  

 " We have a fine time .  "  

 " Dont fight then and dont get her into trouble .  "  
1 won t .  

 " Mind you watch out .  I dont want her with any of 
these war babies .  "  



n6 A FAREWELL TO ARMS 

 " Youre a fine girl ,  Fergy .  "  

 " Im not .  Dont try to flatter me .  How does your 
leg feel ?  "  

 " Fine .  "  

 " How is your head ?  "  She touched the top of it 
with her fingers .  It was sensitive like a foot that had 
gone to sleep .   " Its never bothered me .  "  

 " A bump like that could make you crazy .  It never 
bothers you ?  "  

 " No .  "  

 " Youre a lucky young man .  Have you the letter 
done ?  Im going down .  "  

 " Its here ,  "  I said .  

 " You ought to ask her not to do night duty for a 
while .  Shes getting very tired .  "  

 " All right .  I will .  "  

 " I want to do it but she wont let me .  The others 
are glad to let her have it .  You might give her just a 
little rest .  "  

 " All right .  "  

 " Miss Van Campen spoke about you sleeping all the 
forenoons .  "  

 " She would .  "  

 " It would be better if you let her stay off nights a 
little while .  "  

 " I want her to .  "  

 " You do not .  But if you would make her Id re -  
spect you for it .  "  

 " Ill make her .  "  

 " I dont believe it .  "  She took the note and went out .  
I rang the bell and in a little while Miss Gage came in .  

 " Whats the matter ?  "  

 " I just wanted to talk to you .  Dont you think Miss 
Barkley ought to go off night duty for a while ?  She 



A FAREWELL TO ARMS 117 

looks awfully tired .  Why does she stay on so long ?  "  

Miss Gage looked at me .  

 " Im a friend of yours ,  "  she said .   " You dont have 
to talk to me like that .  "  

 " What do you mean ?  "  

 " Dont be silly .  Was that all you wanted ?  "  

 " Do you want a vermouth ?  "  

 " All right .  Then I have to go .  "  She got out the 
bottle from the armoire and brought a glass .  

 " You take the glass ,  "  I said .   " Ill drink out of the 
bottle .  "  

 " Heres to you ,  "  said Miss Gage .  

 " What did Van Campen say about me sleeping late 
in the mornings ?  "  

 " She just jawed about it .  She calls you our priv -  
ileged patient .  "  

 " To hell with her .  "  

 " She isnt mean ,  "  Miss Gage said .   " Shes just old 
and cranky .  She never liked you .  "  

 " No .  "  

 " Well ,  I do .  And Im your friend .  Dont forget 
that .  "  

 " Youre awfully damned nice .  "  

 " No .  I know who you think is nice .  But Im your 
friend .  How does your leg feel ?  "  

 " Fine .  "  

 " Ill bring some cold mineral water to pour over it .  
It must itch under the cast .  Its hot outside .  "  

 " Youre awful nice .  "  

 " Does it itch much ?  "  

 " No .  Its fine .  "  

 " Ill fix those sandbags better .  "  She leaned over .  
 " Im your friend .  "  

 " I know you are .  "  



n8 A FAREWELL TO ARMS 

 " No you dont .  But you will some day .  "  
Catherine Barkley took three nights off night duty 
and then she came back on again .  It was as though we 
met again after each of us had been away on a long 
journey .  



CHAPTER XVIII 

We had a lovely time that summer .  When I could 
go out we rode in a carriage in the park .  I remember 
the carriage ,  the horse going slowly ,  and up ahead the 
back of the driver with his varnished high hat ,  and 
Catherine Barkley sitting beside me .  If we let our 
hands touch ,  just the side of my hand touching hers ,  
we were excited .  Afterward when I could get around 
on crutches we went to dinner at Biffis or the Gran 
Italia and sat at the tables outside on the floor of the 
galleria .  The waiters came in and out and there were 
people going by and candles with shades on the table -  
cloths and after we decided that we liked the Gran 
Italia best ,  George ,  the head - waiter ,  saved us a table .  
He was a fine waiter and we let him order the meal 
while we looked at the people ,  and the great galleria in 
the dusk ,  and each other .  We drank dry white capri 
iced in a bucket ;  although we tried many of the other 
wines ,  fresa ,  barbera and the sweet white wines .  They 
had no wine waiter because of the war and George 
would smile ashamedly when I asked about wines like 
fresa .  

 " If you imagine a country that makes a wine be -  
cause it tastes like strawberries ,  "  he said .  

 " Why shouldnt it ?  "  Catherine asked .   " It sounds 
splendid/  

 " You try it ,  lady ,  "  said George ,   " if you want to .  
But let me bring a little bottle of margaux for the 
Tenente .  "  

Til try it too ,  George .   ,  ,  
119 



120 A FAREWELL TO ARMS 

 " Sir ,  I cant recommend you to .  It doesnt even 
taste like strawberries/ 

 " It might ,  "  said Catherine .   " It would be wonderful 
if it did .  "  

 " Ill bring it ,  "  said George ,   " and when the Lady is 
satisfied Ill take it away .  "  

It was not much of a wine .  As he said ,  it did not 
even taste like strawberries .  We went back to capri .  
One evening I was short of money and George loaned 
me a hundred lire .   " Thats all right ,  Tenente ,  "  he said .  
 " I know how it is .  I know how a man gets short .  If 
you or the lady need money Ive always got money .  "  

After dinner we walked through the galleria ,  past 
the other restaurants and the shops with their steel 
shutters down ,  and stopped at the little place where 
they sold sandwiches  ;  ham and lettuce sandwiches and 
anchovy sandwiches made of very tiny brown glazed 
rolls and only about as long as your finger .  They were 
to eat in the night when we were hungry .  Then we got 
into an open carriage outside the galleria in front of 
the cathedral and rode to the hospital .  At the door of 
the hospital the porter came out to help with the 
crutches .  I paid the driver ,  and then we rode upstairs 
in the elevator .  Catherine got off at the lower floor 
where the nurses lived and I went on up and went 
down the hall on crutches to my room  ;  sometimes I un -  
dressed and got into bed and sometimes I sat out on the 
balcony with my leg up on another chair and watched 
the swallows over the roofs and waited for Catherine .  
When she came upstairs it was as though she had been 
away on a long trip and I went along the hall with her 
on the crutches and carried the basins and waited out -  
side the doors ,  or went in with her ;  it depending on 
whether they were friends of ours or not ,  and when 



A FAREWELL TO ARMS 121 

she had done all there was to be done we sat out on the 
balcony outside my room .  Afterward I went to bed 
and when they were all asleep and she was sure they 
would not call she came in .  I loved to take her hair 
down and she sat on the bed and kept very still ,  except 
suddenly she would dip down to kiss me while I was 
doing it ,  and I would take out the pins and lay them 
on the sheet and it would be loose and I would watch 
her while she kept very still and then take out the last 
two pins and it would all come down and she would 
drop her head and we would both be inside of it ,  and it 
was the feeling of inside a tent or behind a falls .  

She had wonderfully beautiful hair and I would lie 
sometimes and watch her twisting it up in the light that 
came in the open door and it shone even in the night as 
water shines sometimes just before it is really daylight .  
She had a lovely face and body and lovely smooth skin 
too .  We would be lying together and I would touch 
her cheeks and her forehead and under her eyes and 
her chin and throat with the tips of my fingers and say ,  
 " Smooth as piano keys ,  "  and she would stroke my chin 
with her finger and say ,   " Smooth as emery paper and 
very hard on piano keys .  "  

 " Is it rough ?  "  

 " No ,  darling .  I was just making fun of you .  "  

It was lovely in the nights and if we could only 
touch each other we were happy .  Besides all the big 
times we had many small ways of making love and we 
tried putting thoughts in the other ones head while we 
were in different rooms .  It seemed to work sometimes 
but that was probably because we were thinking the 
same thing anyway .  

We said to each other that we were married the first 
day she had come to the hospital and we counted 



122 A FAREWELL TO ARMS 

months from our wedding day .  I wanted to be really 
married but Catherine said that if we were they would 
send her away and if we merely started on the for -  
malities they would watch her and would break us up .  
We would have to be married under Italian law and 
the formalities were terrific .  I wanted us to be married 
really because I worried about having a child if I 
thought about it ,  but we pretended to ourselves we were 
married and did not worry much and I suppose I en -  
joyed not being married ,  really .  I know one night we 
talked about it and Catherine said ,   " But ,  darling ,  
theyd send me away .  "  

 " Maybe they wouldnt .  "  

 " They would .  Theyd send me home and then we 
would be apart until after the war .  "  

 " Id come on leave .  "  

 " You couldnt get to Scotland and back on a leave .  
Besides ,  I wont leave you .  What good would it do to 
marry now ?  Were really married .  I couldnt be any 
more married .  "  

 " I only wanted to for you .  "  

 " There isnt any me .  Im you .  Dont make up a 
separate me .  "  

 " I thought girls always wanted to be married .  "  

 " They do .  But ,  darling ,  I am married .  Im married 
to you .  Dont I make you a good wife ?  "  

 " Youre a lovely wife .  "  

 " You see ,  darling ,  I had one experience of waiting 
to be married .  "  

 " I dont want to hear about it .  "  

 " You know I dont love any one but you .  You 
shouldnt mind because some one else loved me .  "  

 " I do .  "  



A FAREWELL TO ARMS 123 

 " You shouldnt be jealous of some one whos dead 
when you have everything .  "  ^ 

 " No ,  but I dont want to hear about it .  "  

 " Poor darling .  And I know youve been with all 
kinds of girls and it doesnt matter to me .  "  

 " Couldnt we be married privately some way ?  Then 
if anything happened to me or if you had a child .  "  

 " Theres no way to be married except by church or 
state .  We are married privately .  You see ,  darling ,  it 
would mean everything to me if I had any religion .  
But I havent any religion .  "  

 " You gave me the Saint Anthony .  "  

 " That was for luck .  Some one gave it to me .  "  

 " Then nothing worries you ?  "  

 " Only being sent away from you .  Youre my re -  
ligion .  Youre all Ive got .  "  

 " All right .  But Til marry you the day you say .  "  

 " Dont talk as though you had to make an honest 
woman of me ,  darling .  Im a very honest woman .  You 
cant be ashamed of something if youre only happy 
and proud of it .  Arent you happy ?  "  

 " But you wont ever leave me for some one else .  "  

 " No ,  darling .  I wont ever leave you for some one 
else .  I suppose all sorts of dreadful things will happen 
to us .  But you dont have to worry about that .  "  

 " I dont .  But I love you so much and you did love 
some one else before .  "  

 " And what happened to him ?  "  

 " He died .  "  

 " Yes and if he hadnt I wouldnt have met you .  Im 
not unfaithful ,  darling .  Ive plenty of faults but Im 
very faithful .  Youll be sick of me Ill be so faithful .  "  

 " Ill have to go back to the front pretty soon .  "  

 " We wont think about that until you go .  You see 



I2 4 A FAREWELL TO ARMS 

Im happy ,  darling ,  and we have a lovely time .  I 
havent been happy for a long time and when I met you 
perhaps I was nearly crazy .  Perhaps I was crazy .  But 
now were happy and we love each other .  Do lets 
please just be happy .  You are happy ,  arent you ?  Is 
there anything I do you dont like  ?  Can I do anything 
to please you ?  Would you like me to take down my 
hair ?  Do you want to play ?  "  

 " Yes and come to bed .  "  

 " All right .  Ill go and see the patients first "  



CHAPTER XIX 

The summer went that way .  I do not remember 
much about the days ,  except that they were hot and 
that there were many victories in the papers .  I was 
very healthy and my legs healed quickly so that it 
was not very long after I was first on crutches be -  
fore I was through with them and walking with a cane .  
Then I started treatments at the Ospedale Maggiore 
for bending the knees ,  mechanical treatments ,  baking 
in a box of mirrors with violet rays ,  massage ,  and 
baths .  I went over there afternoons and afterward 
stopped at the cafe and had a drink and read the papers .  
I did not roam around the town ;  but wanted to get 
home to the hospital from the cafe .  All I wanted was to 
see Catherine .  The rest of the time I was glad to kill .  
Mostly I slept in the mornings ,  and in the afternoons ,  
sometimes ,  I went to the races ,  and late to the mech -  
ano - therapy treatments .  Sometimes I stopped in at 
the Anglo - American Club and sat in a deep leather -  
cushioned chair in front of the window and read the 
magazines .  They would not let us go out together 
when I was off crutches because it was unseemly for 
a nurse to be seen unchaperoned with a patient who did 
not look as though he needed attendance ,  so we were 
not together much in the afternoons .  Although some -  
times we could go out to dinner if Ferguson went 
along .  Miss Van Campen had accepted the status that 
we were great friends because she got a great amount 
of work out of Catherine .  She thought Catherine 
came from very good people and that prejudiced her 
in her favor finally .  Miss Van Campen admired fam -  

125 



126 A FAREWELL TO ARMS 

ily very much and came from an excellent family her -  
self .  The hospital was quite busy ,  too ,  and that kept 
her occupied .  It was a hot summer and I knew many 
people in Milan but always was anxious to get back 
home to the hospital as soon as the afternoon was over .  
At the front they were advancing on the Carso ,  they 
had taken Kuk across from Plava and were taking the 
Bainsizza plateau .  The West front did not sound so 
good .  It looked as though the war were going on for 
a long time .  We were in the war now but I thought it 
would take a year to get any great amount of troops 
over and train them for combat .  Next year would be 
a bad year ,  or a good year maybe .  The Italians were 
using up an awful amount of men .  I did not see how 
it could go on .  Even if they took all the Bainsizza and 
Monte San Gabriele there were plenty of mountains 
beyond for the Austrians .  I had seen them .  All the 
highest mountains were beyond .  On the Carso they 
were going forward but there were marshes and 
swamps down by the sea .  Napoleon would have 
whipped the Austrians on the plains .  He never would 
have fought them in the mountains .  He would have 
let them come down and whipped them around Verona .  
Still nobody was whipping any one on the Western 
front .  Perhaps wars werent won any more .  Maybe 
they went on forever .  Maybe it was another Hundred 
Years War .  I put the paper back on the rack and left 
the club .  I went down the steps carefully and walked 
up the Via Manzoni .  Outside the Gran Hotel I met 
old Meyers and his wife getting out of a carriage .  They 
were coming back from the races .  She was a big -  
busted woman in black satin .  He was short and old ,  
with a white mustache and walked flat - footed with a 
cane .  



A FAREWELL TO ARMS 127 

 " How do you do ?  How do you do ?  "  She shook 
hands .   " Hello ,  "  said Meyers .  

 " How were the races ?  "  

 " Fine .  They were just lovely .  I had three winners .  "  

 " How did you do ?  "  I asked Meyers .  

 " All right .  I had a winner .  "  

 " I never know how he does ,  "  Mrs .  Meyers said .  
 " He never tells me .  "  

 " I do all right ,  "  Meyers said .  He was being cordial .  
 " You ought to come out .  "  While he talked you had the 
impression that he was not looking at you or that he 
mistook you for some one else .  

 " I will ,  "  I said .  

 " Im coming up to the hospital to see you ,  "  Mrs .  
Meyers said .   " I have some things for my boys .  Youre 
all my boys .  You certainly are my dear boys .  "  

 " Theyll be glad to see you .  "  

 " Those dear boys .  You too .  Youre one of my 
boys .  "  

 " I have to get back ,  "  I said .  

 " You give my love to all those dear boys .  Ive got 
lots of things to bring .  Ive some fine Marsala and 
cakes .  "  

 " Good - by ,  "  I said .   " Theyll be awfully glad to see 
you .  "  

 " Good - by ,  "  said Meyers .   " You come around to the 
galleria .  You know where my table is .  Were all there 
every afternoon .  "  I went on up the street .  I wanted ,  
to buy something at the Cova to take to Catherine .  In -  
side ,  at the Cova ,  I bought a box of chocolate and while 
the girl wrapped it up I walked over to the bar .  There 
were a couple of British and some aviators .  I had a 
martini alone ,  paid for it ,  picked up the box of choco -  
late at the outside counter and walked on home toward 



128 A FAREWELL TO ARMS 

the hospital .  Outside the little bar up the street from 
the Scala there were some people I knew ,  a vice - con -  
sul ,  two fellows who studied singing ,  and Ettore Moretti ,  
an Italian from San Francisco who was in the Italian 
army .  I had a drink with them .  One of the singers 
was named Ralph Simmons ,  and he was singing under 
the name of Enrico DelCredo .  I never knew how well 
he could sing but he was always on the point of some -  
thing very big happening .  He was fat and looked 
shopworn around the nose and mouth as though he 
had hayfever .  He had come back from singing in 
Piacenza .  He had sung Tosca and it had been won -  
derful .  

 " Of course youve never heard me sing ,  "  he said .  

 " When will you sing here ?  "  

 " Ill be at the Scala in the fall .  "  

 " Ill bet they throw the benches at you ,  "  Ettore said .  
 " Did you hear how they threw the benches at him in 
Modena ?  "  

 " Its a damned lie .  "  

 " They threw the benches at him ,  "  Ettore said .   " I 
was there .  I threw six benches myself .  "  

 " Youre just a wop from Frisco .  "  

 " He cant pronounce Italian ,  "  Ettore said .   " Every -  
where he goes they throw the benches at him .  "  

 " Piacenzas the toughest house to sing in the north 
of Italy ,  "  the other tenor said .   " Believe me thats a 
tough little house to sing .  "  This tenors name was Ed -  
gar Saunders ,  and he sang under the name of Edouardo 
Giovanni .  

 " Id like to be there to see them throw the benches at 
you ,  "  Ettore said .   " You cant sing Italian .  "  

 " Hes a nut ,  "  said Edgar Saunders .   " All he knows 
how to say is throw benches .  "  



A FAREWELL TO ARMS 129 

 " Thats all they know how to do when you two 
sing ,  "  Ettore said .   " Then when you go to America 
youll tell about your triumphs at the Scala .  They 
wouldnt let you get by the first note at the Scala .   ,  ,  

 " Ill sing at the Scala ,  "  Simmons said .   " Im going 
to sing Tosca in October .  "  

 " Well go ,  wont we ,  Mac ?  "  Ettore said to the vice -  
consul .   " Theyll need somebody to protect them .  "  

 " Maybe the American army will be there to protect 
them ,  "  the vice - consul said .   " Do you want another 
drink ,  Simmons ?  You want a drink ,  Saunders ?  "  

 " All right ,  "  said Saunders .  

 " I hear youre going to get the silver medal ,  "  Ettore 
said to me .   " What kind of citation you going to get ?  "  

 " I dont know .  I dont know Im going to get it .  "  

 " Youre going to get it .  Oh boy ,  the girls at the 
Cova will think youre fine then .  Theyll all think you 
killed two hundred Austrians or captured a whole 
trench by yourself .  Believe me ,  I got to work for my 
decorations .  "  

 " How many have you got ,  Ettore ?  "  asked the vice -  
consul .  

 " Hes got everything ,  "  Simmons said .   " Hes the 
boy theyre running the war for .  "  

 " Ive got the bronze twice and three silver medals ,  "  
said Ettore .   " But the papers on only one have come 
through .  "  

 " Whats the matter with the others ?  "  asked Sim -  
mons .  

 " The action wasnt successful ,  "  said Ettore .   " When 
the action isnt successful they hold up all the medals .  "  

 " How many times have you been wounded ,  Ettore ?  "  

 " Three times bad .  I got three wound stripes .  See ?  "   -  



4 



130 A FAREWELL TO ARMS 

He pulled his sleeve around .  The stripes were parallel 
silver lines on a black background sewed to the cloth 
of the sleeve about eight inches below the shoulder .  

 " You got one too ,  "  Ettore said to me .   " Believe me 
theyre fine to have .  Id rather have them than medals .  
Believe me ,  boy ,  when you get three youve got some -  
thing .  You only get one for a wound that puts you 
three months in the hospital .  "  

 " Where were you wounded ,  Ettore ?  "  asked the vice -  
consul .  

Ettore pulled up his sleeve .   " Here ,  "  he showed the 
deep smooth red scar .   " Here on my leg .  I cant show 
you that because I got puttees on ;  and in the foot .  
Theres dead bone in my foot that stinks right now .  
Every morning I take new little pieces out and it stinks 
all the time .  "  

 " What hit you ?  "  asked Simmons .  

 " A hand - grenade .  One of those potato mashers .  It 
just blew the whole side of my foot off .  You know 
those potato mashers ?  "  He turned to me .  

 " Sure .  "  

 " I saw the son of a bitch throw it ,  "  Ettore said .   " It 
knocked me down and I thought I was dead all right 
but those damn potato mashers havent got anything 
in them .  I shot the son of a bitch with my rifle .  I al -  
ways carry a rifle so they cant tell Im an officer .  "  

 " How did he look ?  "  asked Simmons .  

 " That was the only one he had ,  "  Ettore said .   " I 
dont know why he threw it .  I guess he always wanted 
to throw one .  He never saw any real fighting probably .  
I shot the son of a bitch all right .  "  

 " How did he look when you shot him ?  "  Simmons 
asked .  

 " Hell ,  how should I know ,  "  said Ettore .   " I shot him 



A FAREWELL TO ARMS 131 

in the belly .  I was afraid Id miss him if I shot him 
in the head .  "  

 " How long have you been an officer ,  Ettore ?  "  I 
asked .  

 " Two years .  Im going to be a captain .  How long 
have you been a lieutenant  ?  "  

 " Going on three years .  "  

 " You cant be a captain because you dont know the 
Italian language well enough ,  "  Ettore said .   " You can 
talk but you cant read and write well enough .  You 
got to have an education to be a captain .  Why dont 
you go in the American army ?  "  

 " Maybe I will .  "  

 " I wish to God I could .  Oh ,  boy ,  how much does a 
captain get ,  Mac ?  "  

 " I dont know exactly .  Around two hundred and 
fifty dollars ,  I think .  "  

 " Jesus Christ what I could do with two hundred 
and fifty dollars .  You better get in the American army 
quick ,  Fred .  See if you cant get me in .  "  

 " All right .  "  

 " I can command a company in Italian I could learn 
it in English easy .  "  

 " Youd be a general ,  "  said Simmons .  

 " No ,  I dont know enough to be a general .  A gen -  
erals got to know a hell of a lot .  You guys think there 
aint anything to war .  You aint got brains enough to 
be a second - class corporal .  "  

 " Thank God I dont have to be ,  "  Simmons said .  

 " Maybe you will if they round up all you slackers .  
Oh ,  boy ,  Id like to have you two in my platoon .  Mac 
too .  Id make you my orderly ,  Mac .  "  

 " Youre a great boy ,  Ettore ,  "  Mac said .   " But Im 
afraid youre a militarist .  "  



132 A FAREWELL TO ARMS 

 " Ill be a colonel before the wars over ,  "  Ettore said .  

 " If they dont kill you .  "  

 " They wont kill me .  "  He touched the stars at his 
collar with his thumb and forefinger .   " See me do that ?  
We always touch our stars if anybody mentions get -  
ting killed .  "  

 " Lets go ,  Sim ,  "  said Saunders standing up .  

 " All right .  "  

 " So long ,  "  I said .   " I have to go too .  "  It was a 
quarter to six by the clock inside the bar .   " Ciaou ,  Et -  
tore .  "  

 " Ciaou ,  Fred ,  "  said Ettore .   " Thats pretty fine 
youre going to get the silver medal .  "  

 " I dont know Ill get it .  "  

 " Youll get it all right ,  Fred .  I heard you were go -  
ing to get it all right .  "  

 " Well ,  so long ,  "  I said .   " Keep out of trouble ,  Et -  
tore .  "  

 " Dont worry about me .  I dont drink and I dont 
run around .  Im no boozer and whorehound .  I know 
whats good for me .  "  

 " So long ,  "  I said .   " Im glad youre going to be pro -  
moted captain .  "  

 " I dont have to wait to be promoted .  Im going to 
be a captain for merit of war .  You know .  Three stars 
with the crossed swords and crown above .  Thats me .  "  

 " Good luck .  "  

 " Good luck .  When you going back to the front ?  "  

 " Pretty soon .  "  

 " Well ,  Ill see you around .  "  

 " So long .  "  

 " So long .  Dont take any bad nickels .  "  

I walked on down a back street that led to a cross -  
cut to the hospital .  Ettore was twenty - three .  He had 



A FAREWELL TO ARMS 133 

been brought up by an uncle in San Francisco and was 
visiting his father and mother in Torino when war was 
declared .  He had a sister ,  who had been sent to Amer -  
ica with him at the same time to live with the uncle ,  
who would graduate from normal school this year .  
He was a legitimate hero who bored every one he met .  
Catherine could not stand him .  

 " We have heroes too/ she said .   " But usually ,  dar -  
ling ,  theyre much quieter .  "  

 " I dont mind him .  "  

 " I wouldnt mind him if he wasnt so conceited and 
didnt bore me ,  and bore me ,  and bore me .  "  

 " He bores me .  "  

 " Youre sweet to say so ,  darling .  But you dont 
need to .  You can picture him at the front and you 
know hes useful but hes so much the type of boy I 
dont care for .  "  

 " I know .  "  

 " Youre awfully sweet to know ,  and I try and like 
him but hes a dreadful ,  dreadful boy really .  "  

 " He said this afternoon he was going to be a cap -  
tain .  "  

 " Im glad ,  "  said Catherine .   " That should please 
him .  "  

 " Wouldnt you like me to have some more exalted 
rank ?  "  

 " No ,  darling .  I only want you to have enough rank 
so that were admitted to the better restaurants .  "  

 " Thats just the rank I have .  "  

 " You have a splendid rank .  I dont want you to 
have any more rank .  It might go to your head .  Oh ,  
darling ,  Im awfully glad youre not conceited .  Id 
have married you even if you were conceited but its 
very restful to have a husband whos not conceited .  "  



134 A FAREWELL TO ARMS 

We were talking softly out on the balcony .  The 
moon was supposed to rise but there was a mist over 
the town and it did not come up and in a little while 
it started to drizzle and we came in .  Outside the mist 
turned to rain and in a little while it was raining hard 
and we heard it drumming on the roof .  I got up and 
stood at the door to see if it was raining in but it wasnt ,  
so I left the door open .  

 " Who else did you see ?  "  Catherine asked .  

 " Mr .  and Mrs .  Meyers .  "  

 " Theyre a strange lot .  "  

 " Hes supposed to have been in the penitentiary at 
home .  They let him out to die .  "  

 " And he lived happily in Milan forever after .  "  

 " I dont know how happily .  "  

 " Happily enough after jail I should think .  "  

 " Shes bringing some things here .  "  

 " She brings splendid things .  Were you her dear 
boy ?  "  

 " One of them .  "  

 " You are all her dear boys ,  "  Catherine said .   " She 
prefers the dear boys .  Listen to it rain .  "  

 " Its raining hard .  "  

 " And youll always love me ,  wont you ?  "  

 " Yes .  "  

 " And the rain wont make any difference ?  "  

 " No .  "  

 " Thats good .  Because Im afraid of the rain .  "  

 " Why ?  "  I was sleepy .  Outside the rain was falling 
steadily .  

 " I dont know ,  darling .  Ive always been afraid of 
the rain .  "  

 " I like it .  "  



A FAREWELL TO ARMS 135 

 " I like to walk in it .  But its very hard on loving .  "  

 " Ill love you always .  "  

 " Ill love you in the rain and in the snow and in the 
hail and  what else is there ?  "  

 " I dont know .  I guess Im sleepy .  "  

 " Go to sleep ,  darling ,  and Ill love you no matter 
how it is .  "  

 " Youre not really afraid of the rain are you ?  "  

 " Not when Im with you .  "  

 " Why are you afraid of it ?  "  

 " I dont know .  "  

 " Tell me .  "  

 " Dont make me .  "  

 " Tell me .  "  

 " No .  "  

 " Tell me .  "  

 " All right .  Im afraid of the rain because some -  
times I see me dead in it .  "  

 " No .  "  

 " And sometimes I see you dead in it .  "  

 " Thats more likely .  "  

 " No its not ,  darling .  Because I can keep you safe .  
I know I can .  But nobody can help themselves .  "  

 " Please stop it .  I dont want you to get Scotch and 
crazy to - night .  We wont be together much longer .  "  

 " No ,  but I am Scotch and crazy .  But Ill stop it .  
Its all nonsense .  "  

 " Yes its all nonsense .  "  

 " Its all nonsense .  Its only nonsense .  Im not afraid 
of the rain .  Im not afraid of the rain .  Oh ,  oh ,  God ,  
I wish I wasnt .  "  She was crying .  I comforted her 
and she stopped crying .  But outside it kept on raining .  



CHAPTER XX 

One day in the afternoon we went to the races .  Fer -  
guson went too and Crowell Rodgers ,  the boy who had 
been wounded in the eyes by the explosion of the shell 
nose - cap .  The girls dressed to go after lunch while 
Crowell and I sat on the bed in his room and read the 
past performances of the horses and the predictions in 
the racing paper .  Crowells head was bandaged and 
he did not care much about these races but read the rac -  
ing paper constantly and kept track of all the horses for 
something to do .  He said the horses were a terrible 
lot but they were all the horses we had .  Old Meyers 
liked him and gave him tips .  Meyers won on nearly 
every race but disliked to give tips because it brought 
down the prices .  The racing was very crooked .  Men 
who had been ruled off the turf everywhere else were 
racing in Italy .  Meyers information was good but I 
hated to ask him because sometimes he did not answer ,  
and always you could see it hurt him to tell you ,  but he 
felt obligated to tell us for some reason and he hated 
less to tell Crowell .  Crowells eyes had been hurt ,  one 
was hurt badly ,  and Meyers had trouble with his eyes 
and so he liked Crowell .  Meyers never told his wife 
what horses he was playing and she won or lost ,  mostly 
lost ,  and talked all the time .  

We four drove out to San Siro in an open carriage .  
It was a lovely day and we drove out through the park 
and out along the tramway and out of town where the 
road was dusty .  There were villas with iron fences and 
big overgrown gardens and ditches with water flowing 
and green vegetable gardens with dust on the leaves .  

136 



A FAREWELL TO ARMS 137 

We could look across the plain and see farmhouses 
and the rich green farms with their irrigation ditches 
and the mountains to the north .  There were many car -  
riages going into the race track and the men at the 
gate let us in without cards because we were in uni -  
form .  We left the carriage ,  bought programmes ,  and 
walked across the infield and then across the smooth 
thick turf of the course to the paddock .  The grand 
stands were old and made of wood and the betting 
booths were under the stands and in a row out near the 
stables .  There was a crowd of soldiers along the fence 
in the infield .  The paddock was fairly well filled with 
people and they were walking the horses around in a 
ring under the trees behind the grand stand .  We saw 
people we knew and got chairs for Ferguson and 
Catherine and watched the horses .  

They went around ,  one after the other ,  their heads 
down ,  the grooms leading them .  One horse ,  a purplish 
black ,  Crowell swore was dyed that color .  We 
watched him and it seemed possible .  He had only 
come out just before the bell rang to saddle .  We looked 
him up in the programme from the number on the 
grooms arm and it was listed a black gelding named 
Japalac .  The race was for horses that had never won 
a race worth one thousand lire or more .  Catherine 
was sure his color had been changed .  Ferguson said 
she could not tell .  I thought he looked suspicious .  We 
all agreed we ought to back him and pooled one hun -  
dred lire .  The odds sheets showed he would pay thirty -  
five to one .  Crowell went over and bought the tickets 
while we watched the jockeys ride around once more 
and then go out under the trees to the track and gallop 
slowly up to the turn where the start was to be .  

We went up in the grand - stand to watch the race .  



138 A FAREWELL TO ARMS 

They had no elastic barrier at San Siro then and tht 
starter lined up all the horses ,  they looked very small 
way up the track ,  and then sent them off with a crack 
of his long whip .  They came past us with the black 
horse well in front and on the turn he was running 
away from the others .  I watched them on the far side 
with the glasses and saw the jockey fighting to hold 
him in but he could not hold him and when they came 
around the turn and into the stretch the black horse 
was fifteen lengths ahead of the others .  He went way 
on up and around the turn after the finish .  

 " Isnt it wonderful ,  "  Catherine said .   " Well have 
over three thousand lire .  He must be a splendid horse .  "  

 " I hope his color doesnt run ,  "  Crowell said ,   " before 
they pay off .  "  

 " He was really a lovely horse ,  "  Catherine said .   " I 
wonder if Mr .  Meyers backed him .  "  

 " Did you have the winner  ?  "  I called to Meyers .  He 
nodded .  

 " I didnt ,  "  Mrs .  Meyers said .   " Who did you children 
bet on ?  "  

 " Japalac .  "  

 " Really ?  Hes thirty - five to one  !  "  

 " We liked his color .  "  

 " I didnt .  I thought he looked seedy .  They told me 
not to back him .  "  

 " He wont pay much ,  "  Meyers said .  

 " Hes marked thirty - five to one in the quotes ,  "  I said .  

 " He wont pay much .  At the last minute ,  "  Meyers 
said ,   " they put a lot of money on him .  "  

 " Who ?  "  

 " Kempton and the boys .  Youll see .  He wont pay 
two to one .  "  



A FAREWELL TO ARMS 139 

 " Then we wont get three thousand lire ,  "  Catherine 
said .   " I dont like this crooked racing  !  "  

 " Well get two hundred lire .  "  

 " Thats nothing .  That doesnt do us any good .  I 
thought we were going to get three thousand .  "  

 " Its crooked and disgusting ,  "  Ferguson said .  

 " Of course ,  "  said Catherine ,   " if it hadnt been 
crooked wed never have backed him at all .  But I 
would have liked the three thousand lire .  "  

 " Lets go down and get a drink and see what they 
pay ,  "  Crowell said .  We went out to where they posted 
the numbers and the bell rang to pay off and they put 
up 18 . 50 after Japalac to win .  That meant he paid less 
than even money on a ten - lira bet .  

We went to the bar under the grand stand and had 
a whiskey and soda apiece .  We ran into a couple of 
Italians we knew and McAdams ,  the vice - consul ,  and 
they came up with us when we joined the girls .  The 
Italians were full of manners and McAdams talked to 
Catherine while we went down to bet again .  Mr .  Mey -  
ers was standing near the pari - mutual .  

 " Ask him what he played ,  "  I said to Crowell .  

 " What are you on ,  Mr .  Meyers ?  "  Crowell asked .  
Meyers took out His programme and pointed to the 
number five with his pencil .  

 " Do you mind if we play him too ?  "  Crowell asked .  

 " Go ahead .  Go ahead .  But dont tell my wife I 
gave it to you .  "  

 " Will you have a drink ?  "  I asked .  

 " No thanks .  I never drink .  "  

We put a hundred lire on number five to win and a 
hundred to place and then had another whiskey and 
soda apiece .  I was feeling very good and we picked up 
a couple more Italians ,  who each had a drink with us ,  



i 4 o A FAREWELL TO ARMS 

and went back to the girls .  These Italians were also 
very mannered and matched manners with the two we 
had collected before .  In a little while no one could sit 
down .  I gave the tickets to Catherine .  

 " What horse is it ?  "  

 " I dont know .  Mr .  Meyers choice .  "  

 " Dont you even know the name ?  "  

 " No .  You can find it on the programme .  Number 
five I think .  "  

 " You have touching faith ,  "  she said .  The number 
five won but did not pay anything .  Mr .  Meyers was 
angry .  

 " You have to put up two hundred lire to make 
twenty ,  "  he said .   " Twelve lire for ten .  Its not worth 
it .  My wife lost twenty lire .  "  

 " Ill go down with you ,  "  Catherine said to me .  The 
Italians all stood up .  We went downstairs and out to 
the paddock .  

 " Do you like this ?  "  Catherine asked .  

 " Yes .  I guess I do .  "  

 " Its all right ,  I suppose ,  "  she said .   " But ,  darling ,  I 
cant stand to see so many people .  "  

 " We dont see many .  "  

 " No .  But those Meyers and the man from the bank 
with his wife and daughters  "  

 " He cashes my sight drafts ,  "  I said .  

 " Yes but some one else would if he didnt .  Those 
last four boys were awful .  "  

 " We can stay out here and watch the race from the 
fence .  "  

 " That will be lovely .  And ,  darling ,  lets back a horse 
weve never heard of and that Mr .  Meyers wont be 
backing .  "  

 " All right .  "  



A FAREWELL TO ARMS i 4 i 

We backed a horse named Light For Me that fin -  
ished fourth in a field of five .  We leaned on the fence 
and watched the horses go by ,  their hoofs thudding as 
they went past ,  and saw the mountains off in the dis -  
tance and Milan beyond the trees and the fields .  

 " I feel so much cleaner/ Catherine said .  The horses 
were coming back ,  through the gate ,  wet and sweating ,  
the jockeys quieting them and riding up to dismount 
under the trees .  

 " Wouldnt you like a drink ?  We could have one out 
here and see the horses .  "  

Til get them ,  "  I said .  

 " The boy will bring them ,  "  Catherine said .  She put 
her hand up and the boy came out from the Pagoda 
bar beside the stables .  We sat down at a round iron 
table .  

 " Dont you like it better when were alone ?  "  

 " Yes ,  "  I said .  

 " I felt very lonely when they were all there .  "  

 " Its grand here ,  "  I said .  

 " Yes .  Its really a pretty course .  "  

 " Its nice .  "  

 " Dont let me spoil your fun ,  darling .  Ill go back 
whenever you want .  "  

 " No ,  "  I said .   " Well stay here and have our drink .  
Then well go down and stand at the water jump for 
the steeplechase .  "  

 " Youre awfully good to me ,  "  she said .  

After we had been alone awhile we were glad to see 
the others again .  We had a good time .  



CHAPTER XXI 

In September the first cool nights came ,  then the 
days were cool and the leaves on the trees in the park 
began to turn color and we knew the summer was gone .  
The fighting at the front went very badly and they 
could not take San Gabriele ,  The fighting on the Bain -  
sizza plateau was over and by the middle of the month 
the fighting for San Gabriele was about over too .  They 
could not take it .  Ettore was gone back to the front .  
The horses were gone to Rome and there was no more 
racing .  Crowell had gone to Rome too ,  to be sent back 
to America .  There were riots twice in the town against 
the war and bad rioting in Turin .  A British major at 
the club told me the Italians had lost one hundred and 
fifty thousand men on the Bainsizza plateau and on 
San Gabriele .  He said they had lost forty thousand 
on the Carso besides .  We had a drink and he talked .  
He said the fighting was over for the year down here 
and that the Italians had bitten off more than they 
could chew .  He said the offensive in Flanders was go -  
ing to the bad .  If they killed men as they did this fall 
the Allies would be cooked in another year .  He said 
we were all cooked but we were all right as long as we 
did not know it .  We were all cooked .  The thing was 
not to recognize it .  The last country to realize they 
were cooked would win the war .  We had another 
drink .  Was I on somebodys staff ?  No .  He was .  It 
was all balls .  We were alone in the club sitting back in 
one of the big leather sofas .  His boots were smoothly 
polished dull leather .  They were beautiful boots .  He 
said it was all balls .  They thought only in divisions 

142 



A FAREWELL TO ARMS 143 

and man - power .  They all squabbled about divisions 
and only killed them when they got them .  They were 
all cooked .  The Germans won the victories .  By God 
they were soldiers .  The old Hun was a soldier .  But 
they were cooked too .  We were all cooked I asked 
about Russia .  He said they were cooked already .  Id 
soon see they were cooked .  Then the Austrians were 
cooked too .  If they got some Hun divisions they could 
do it .  Did he think they would attack this fall ?  Of 
course they would .  The Italians were cooked .  Every -  
body knew they were cooked .  The old Hun would come 
down through the Trentino and cut the railway at Vi -  
cenza and then where would the Italians be ?  They 
tried that in sixteen ,  I said .  Not with Germans .  Yes ,  
I said .  But they probably wouldnt do that ,  he said .  
It was too simple .  Theyd try something complicated 
and get royally cooked .  I had to go ,  I said .  I had to 
get back to the hospital .   " Good - by ,  "  he said .  Then 
cheerily ,   " Every sort of luck !  "  There was a great con -  
trast between his world pessimism and personal cheeri -  
ness .  

I stopped at a barber shop and was shaved and went 
home to the hospital .  My leg was as well as it would 
get for a long time .  I had been up for examination 
three days before .  There were still some treatments to 
take before my course at the Ospedale Maggiore was 
finished and I walked along the side street practising 
not limping .  An old man was cutting silhouettes under 
an arcade .  I stopped to watch him .  Two girls were 
posing and he cut their silhouettes together ,  snipping 
very fast and looking at them ,  his head on one side .  
The girls were giggling .  He showed me the silhou -  
ettes before he pasted them on white paper and handed 
them to the girls .  



144 A FAREWELL TO ARMS 

Theyre beautiful ,  "  he said .   " How about you ,  
Tenente  ?  "  

The girls went away looking at their silhouettes and 
laughing .  They were nice - looking girls .  One of them 
worked in the wine shop across from the hospital .  

 " All right ,   ,  ,  I said .  

 " Take your cap off .  "  

 " No .  With it on .  "  

 " It will not be so beautiful ,  "  the old man said .   " But ,  "  
he brightened ,   " it will be more military .  "  

He snipped away at the black paper ,  then separated 
the two thicknesses and pasted the profiles on a card 
and handed them to me .  

 " How much ?  "  

 " Thats all right .  "  He waved his hand .   " I just made 
them for you .  "  

 " Please .  "  I brought out some coppers .   " For plea -  
sure .  "  

 " No .  I did them for a pleasure .  Give them to your 
girl .  "  

 " Many thanks until we meet .  "  

 " Until I see thee .  "  

I went on to the hospital .  There were some letters ,  
an official one ,  and some others .  I was to have three 
weeks convalescent leave and then return to the front .  
I read it over carefully .  Well ,  that was that .  The con -  
valescent leave started October fourth when my course 
was finished .  Three weeks was twenty - one days .  That 
made October twenty - fifth .  I told them I would not 
be in and went to the restaurant a little way up the 
street from the hospital for supper and read my letters 
and the Corriere Delia Sera at the table .  There was a 
letter from my grandfather ,  containing family news ,  



A FAREWELL TO ARMS 145 

patriotic encouragement ,  a draft for two hundred dol -  
lars ,  and a few clippings  ;  a dull letter from the priest 
at our mess ,  a letter from a man I knew who was flying 
with the French and had gotten in with a wild gang 
and was telling about it ,  and a note from Rinaldi ask -  
ing me how long I was going to skulk in Milano and 
what was all the news ?  He wanted me to bring him 
phonograph records and enclosed a list .  I drank a 
small bottle of chianti with the meal ,  had a coffee after -  
ward with a glass of cognac ,  finished the paper ,  put my 
letters in my pocket ,  left the paper on the table with 
the tip and went out .  In my room at the hospital I un -  
dressed ,  put on pajamas and a dressing - gown ,  pulled 
down the curtains on the door that opened onto the bal -  
cony and sitting up in bed read Boston papers from a 
pile Mrs .  Meyers had left for her boys at the hospital .  
The Chicago White Sox were winning the American 
League pennant and the New York Giants were lead -  
ing the National League .  Babe Ruth was a pitcher 
then playing for Boston .  The papers were dull ,  the 
news was local and stale ,  and the war news was all old .  
The American news was all training camps .  I was glad 
I wasnt in a training camp .  The baseball news was 
all I could read and I did not have the slightest interest 
in it .  A number of papers together made it impossible 
to read with interest .  It was not very timely but I read 
at it for a while .  I wondered if America really got 
into the war ,  if they would close down the major 
leagues .  They probably wouldnt .  There was still rac -  
ing in Milan and the war could not be much worse .  
They had stopped racing in France .  That was where 
our horse Japalac came from .  Catherine was not due 
on duty until nine oclock .  I heard her passing along 
the floor when she first came on duty and once saw her 



146 A FAREWELL TO ARMS 

pass in the hall .  She went to several other rooms and 
finally came into mine .  

 " Fm late ,  darling/ she said .   " There was a lot to do .  
How are you ?  "  

I told her about my papers and the leave .  

 " Thats lovely ,  "  she said .   " Where do you want to 
go ?  "  

 " Nowhere .  I want to stay here .  "  

 " Thats silly .  You pick a place to go and Ill come 
too .  "  

 " How will you work it ?  "  

 " I dont know .  But I will .  "  

 " Youre pretty wonderful .  "  

 " No Im not .  But life isnt hard to manage when 
youve nothing to lose .  "  

 " How do you mean ?  "  

 " Nothing .  I was only thinking how small obstacles 
seemed that once were so big .  "  

 " I should think it might be hard to manage .  "  

 " No it wont ,  darling .  If necessary Ill simply leave .  
But it wont come to that .  "  

 " Where should we go ?  "  

 " I dont care .  Anywhere you want .  Anywhere we 
dont know people .  "  

 " Dont you care where we go ?  "  

 " No .  Ill like any place .  "  

She seemed upset and taut .  

 " Whats the matter ,  Catherine ?  "  

 " Nothing .  Nothings the matter .  "  

 " Yes there is .  "  

 " No nothing .  Really nothing .  "  

 " I know there is .  Tell me ,  darling .  You can tell 
me .  "  

 " Its nothing .  "  



A FAREWELL TO ARMS 147 

 " Tell me .  "  

 " I dont want to .  Im afraid Ill make you unhappy 
or worry you/ 

 " No it wont .  "  

 " Youre sure ?  It doesnt worry me but Im afraid 
to worry you .  "  

 " It wont if it doesnt worry you .  "  

 " I dont want to tell .  "  

 " Tell it/ 

 " Do I have to ?  "  

 " Yes .  "  

 " Im going to have a baby ,  darling .  Its almost three 
months along .  Youre not worried ,  are you ?  Please 
please dont .  You mustnt worry .  "  

 " All right .  "  

 " Is it all right ?  "  

 " Of course .  "  

 " I did everything .  I took everything but it didnt 
make any difference .  "  

 " Im not worried .  "  

 " I couldnt help it ,  darling ,  and I havent worried 
about it .  You mustnt worry or feel badly .  "  

 " I only worry about you .  "  

 " Thats it .  Thats what you mustnt do .  People 
have babies all the time .  Everybody has babies .  Its 
a natural thing .  "  

 " Youre pretty wonderful .  "  

 " No Im not .  But you mustnt mind ,  darling .  Ill 
try and not make trouble for you .  I know Ive made 
trouble now .  But havent I been a good girl until now ?  
You never knew it ,  did you ?  "  

 " No .  "  

 " It will all be like that .  You simply mustnt worry .  
I can see youre worrying .  Stop it .  Stop it right away .  



148 A FAREWELL TO ARMS 

Wouldnt you like a drink ,  darling ?  I know a drink ,  
always makes you feel cheerful .  "  

 " No .  I feel cheerful .  And youre pretty wonder -  
ful .  "  

 " No Im not .  But Ill fix everything to be together 
if you pick out a place for us to go .  It ought to be 
lovely in October .  Well have a lovely time ,  darling ,  
and Ill write you every day while youre at the front .  "  

 " Where will you be ?  "  

 " I dont know yet .  But somewhere splendid .  Ill 
look after all that .  "  

We were quiet awhile and did not talk .  Catherine 
was sitting on the bed and I was looking at her but we 
did not touch each other .  We were apart as when some 
one comes into a room and people are self - conscious .  
She put out her hand and took mine .  

 " You arent angry are you ,  darling ?  "  

 " No .  "  

 " And you dont feel trapped  ?  "  

 " Maybe a little .  But not by you .  "  

 " I didnt mean by me .  You mustnt be stupid .  I 
meant trapped at all .  "  

 " You always feel trapped biologically .  "  

She went away a long way without stirring or re -  
moving her hand .  

 "  Always isnt a pretty word .  "  

 " Im sorry .  "  

 " Its all right .  But you see Ive never had a baby 
and Ive never even loved any one .  And Ive tried to be 
the way you wanted and then you talk about always/  

 " I could cut off my tongue ,  "  I offered .  

 " Oh ,  darling !  "  she came back from wherever she 
had been .   " You mustnt mind me .  "  We were both to -  
gether again and the self  - consciousness was gone .   " We 



A FAREWELL TO ARMS 149 

really are the same one and we mustnt misunderstand 
on purpose .  "  

 " We wont .  "  

 " But people do .  They love each other and they mis -  
understand on purpose and they fight and then sud -  
denly they arent the same one .  "  

 " We wont fight .  "  

 " We mustnt .  Because theres only us two and in 
the world theres all the rest of them .  If anything 
comes between us were gone and then they have us .  "  

 " They wont get us ,  "  I said .   " Because youre too 
brave .  Nothing ever happens to the brave .  "  

 " They die of course .  "  

 " But only once .  "  

 " I dont know .  Who said that ?  "  

 " The coward dies a thousand deaths ,  the brave but 
one ?  "  

 " Of course .  Who said it ?  "  

 " I dont know .  "  

 " He was probably a coward ,  "  she said .   " He knew 
a great deal about cowards but nothing about the brave .  
The brave dies perhaps two thousand deaths if hes in -  
telligent .  He simply doesnt mention them .  "  

 " I dont know .  Its hard to see inside the head of 
the brave .  "  

 " Yes .  Thats how they keep that way .  "  

 " Youre an authority .  "  

 " Youre right ,  darling .  That was deserved .  "  

 " Youre brave .  "  

 " No ,  "  she said .   " But I would like to be .  "  

 " Im not ,  "  I said ,   " I know where I stand .  Ive been 
out long enough to know .  Im like a ball - player that 
bats two hundred and thirty and knows hes no better .  "  



150 A FAREWELL TO ARMS 

 " What is a ball - player that bats two hundred and 
thirty ?  If s awfully impressive .  "  

 " Its not .  It means a mediocre hitter in baseball/ 

 " But still a hitter ,  "  she prodded me .  

 " I guess were both conceited ,  "  I said .   " But you are 
brave .  "  

 " No .  But I hope to be .  "  

 " Were both brave ,  "  I said .   " And Im very brave 
when Ive had a drink .  "  

 " Were splendid people ,  "  Catherine said .  She went 
over to the armoire and brought me the cognac and a 
glass .   " Have a drink ,  darling ,  "  she said .   " Youve 
been awfully good .  "  

 " I dont really want one .  "  

 " Take one .  "  

 " All right .  "  I poured the water glass a third full 
of cognac and drank it off .  

 " That was very big ,  "  she said .   " I know brandy is 
for heroes .  But you shouldnt exaggerate .  "  

 " Where will we live after the war ?  "  

 " In an old peoples home probably ,  "  she said .   " For 
three years I looked forward very childishly to the war 
ending at Christmas .  But now I look forward till when 
our son will be a lieutenant commander .  "  

 " Maybe hell be a general .  "  

 " If its an hundred years war hell have time to try 
both of the services .  "  

 " Dont you want a drink ?  "  

 " No .  It always makes you happy ,  darling ,  and it 
only makes me dizzy .  "  

 " Didnt you ever drink brandy ?  "  

 " No ,  darling .  Im a very old - fashioned wife .  "  

I reached down to the floor for the bottle and poured 
another drink .  



A FAREWELL TO ARMS 151 

 " Id better go to have a look at your compatriots ,  "  
Catherine said .   " Perhaps youll read the papers until 
I come back .  "  

 " Do you have to go ?  "  

 " Now or later .  "  

 " All right .  Now .  "  

 " Ill come back later .  "  

 " Ill have finished the papers ,  "  I said .  



CHAPTER XXII 

It turned cold that night and the next day it was 
raining .  Coming home from the Ospedale Maggiore 
it rained very hard and I was wet when I came in .  Up 
in my room the rain was coming down heavily outside 
on the balcony ,  and the wind blew it against the glass 
doors .  I changed my clothing and drank some brandy 
but the brandy did not taste good .  I felt sick in the 
night and in the morning after breakfast I was nau -  
seated .  

 " There is no doubt about it ,  "  the house surgeon said .  
 " Look at the whites of his eyes ,  Miss .  "  

Miss Gage looked .  They had me look in a glass .  The 
whites of the eyes were yellow and it was the jaundice .  
I was sick for two weeks with it .  For that reason we 
did not spend a convalescent leave together .  We had 
planned to go to Pallanza on Lago Maggiore .  It is 
nice there in the fall when the leaves turn .  There are 
walks you can take and you can troll for trout in the 
lake .  It would have been better than Stresa because 
there are fewer people at Pallanza .  Stresa is so easy 
to get to from Milan that there are always people you 
know .  There is a nice village at Pallanza and you can 
row out to the islands where the fishermen live and 
there is a restaurant on the biggest island .  But we 
did not go .  

One day while I was in bed with jaundice Miss Van 
Campen came in the room ,  opened the door into the 
armoire and saw the empty bottles there .  I had sent a 
load of them down by the porter and I believe she must 
have seen them going out and come up to find some 

152 



A FAREWELL TO ARMS 153 

more .  They were mostly vermouth bottles ,  marsala bot -  
tles ,  capri bottles ,  empty chianti flasks and a few cognac 
bottles .  The porter had carried out the large bottles ,  
those that had held vermouth ,  and the straw - covered 
chianti flasks ,  and left the brandy bottles for the last .  
It was the brandy bottles and a bottle shaped like a bear ,  
which had held kummel ,  that Miss Van Campen found .  
The bear - shaped bottle enraged her particularly .  She 
held it up ,  the bear was sitting up on his haunches with 
his paws up ,  there was a cork in his glass head and a 
few sticky crystals at the bottom .  I laughed .  

 " It was kummel ,  "  I said .   " The best kummel comes 
in those bear - shaped bottles .  It comes from Russia .  "  

 " Those are all brandy bottles ,  arent they ?  "  Miss 
Van Campen asked .  

 " I cant see them all ,  "  I said .   " But they probably 
are .  

 " How long has this been going on ?  "  

 " I bought them and brought them in myself ,  "  I said .  
 " I have had Italian officers visit me frequently and I 
have kept brandy to offer them .  "  

 " You havent been drinking it yourself ?  "  she said .  

 " I have also drunk it myself .  "  

 " Brandy ,  "  she said .   " Eleven empty bottles of brandy 
and that bear liquid .  "  

 " Kummel .  "  

 " I will send for some one to take them away .  Those 
are all the empty bottles you have ?  "  

 " For the moment "  

 " And I was pitying you having jaundice .  Pity is 
something that is wasted on you .  "  

 " Thank you .  "  

 " I suppose you cant be blamed for not wanting to 
go back to the front .  But I should think you would 



154 A FAREWELL TO ARMS 

try something more intelligent than producing jaun -  
dice with alcoholism .  "  

 " With what ?  "  

 " With alcoholism .  You heard me say it .  " * I did 
not say anything .   " Unless you find something else Im 
afraid you will have to go back to the front when 
you are through with your jaundice .  I dont believe 
self - inflicted jaundice entitles you to a convalescent 
leave .  "  

 " You dont ?  "  

 " I do not .  "  

 " Have you ever had jaundice ,  Miss Van Campen ?  "  

 " No ,  but I have seen a great deal of it .  "  

 " You noticed how the patients enjoyed it ?  "  

 " I suppose it is better than the front .  "  

 " Miss Van Campen ,  "  I said ,   " did you ever know a 
man who tried to disable himself by kicking himself 
in the scrotum ?  "  

Miss Van Campen ignored the actual question .  She 
had to ignore it or leave the room .  She was not ready 
to leave because she had disliked me for a long time 
and she was now cashing in .  

 " I have known many men to escape the front through 
self - inflicted wounds .  "  

 " That wasnt the question .  I have seen self - inflicted 
wounds also .  I asked you if you had ever known a 
man who had tried to disable himself by kicking him -  
self in the scrotum .  Because that is the nearest sensa -  
tion to jaundice and it is a sensation that I believe few 
women have ever experienced .  That was why I asked 
you if you had ever had the jaundice ,  Miss Van 
Campen ,  because   "  Miss Van Campen left the room .  
Later Miss Gage came in .  



A FAREWELL TO ARMS 155 

 " What did you say to Van Campen ?  She was furi -  
ous .  "  

 " We were comparing sensations .  I was going to 
suggest that she had never experienced childbirth  "  

 " Youre a fool/ Gage said .   " Shes after your scalp .  "  

 " She has my scalp ,  "  I said .   " Shes lost me my leave 
and she might try and get me court - martialled .  Shes 
mean enough .  "  

 " She never liked you ,  "  Gage said .   " Whats it 
about ?  "  

 " She says Ive drunk myself into jaundice so as 
not to go back to the front .  "  

 " Pooh ,  "  said Gage .   " Ill swear youve never taken 
a drink .  Everybody will swear youve never taken a 
drink .  "  

 " She found the bottles .  "  

 " Ive told you a hundred times to clear out those 
bottles .  Where are they now  ?  "  

 " In the armoire .  "  

 " Have you a suitcase ?  "  

 " No .  Put them in that rucksack .  "  

Miss Gage packed the bottles in the rucksack .   " Ill 
give them to the porter ,  "  she said .  She started for the 
door .  

 " Just a minute ,  "  Miss Van Campen said .   " Ill take 
those bottles .  "  She had the porter with her .   " Carry 
them ,  please ,  "  she said .   " I want to show them to the 
doctor when I make my report .  "  

She went down the hall .  The porter carried the sack .  
He knew what was in it .  

Nothing happened except that I lost my leave .  



CHAPTER XXIII 

The night I was to return to the front I sent the 
porter down to hold a seat for me on the train when it 
came from Turin .  The trdfew r as to leave at midnight .  
It was made up at Turin an&reached Milan about half -  
past ten at night and lay in the station until time to 
leave .  You had to be there when it came in ,  to get a 
seat .  The porter took a friend with him ,  a machine -  
gunner on leave who worked in a tailor shop ,  and was 
sure that between them they could hold a place .  I gave 
them money for platform tickets and had them take my 
baggage .  There was a big rucksack and two musettes .  

I said good - by at the hospital at about five oclock 
and went out .  The porter had my baggage in his lodge 
T told him I would be at the station a little before 
midnight .  His wife called me  " Signorino "  and cried .  
She wiped her eyes and shook hands and then cried 
again .  I patted her on the back and she cried once 
more .  She had done my mending and was a very short 
dumpy ,  happy -  faced woman with white hair .  When she 
cried her whole face went to pieces .  I went down to 
the corner where there was a wine shop and waited in -  
side looking out the window .  It was dark outside and 
cold and misty .  I paid for my coffee and grappa and 
I watched the people going by in the light from the 
window .  I saw Catherine and knocked on the window .  
She looked ,  saw me and smiled ,  and I went out to meet 
her .  She was wearing a dark blue cape and a soft felt 
hat .  We walked along together ,  along the sidewalk 
past the wine shops ,  then across the market square and 
up the street and through the archway to the cathedral 

156 



A FAREWELL TO ARMS 157 

square .  There were streetcar tracks and beyond them 
was the cathedral .  It was white and wet in the mist .  
We crossed the tram tracks .  On our left were the 
shops ,  their windows lighted ,  and the entrance to the 
galleria .  There was a fog in the square and when we 
came close to the front of the cathedral it was very big 
and the stone was wet .  

 " Would you like to go in ?  "  

 " No ,  "  Catherine said .  We walked along .  There was 
a soldier standing with his girl in the shadow of one of 
the stone buttresses ahead of us and we passed them .  
They were standing tight up against the stone and he 
had put his cape around her .  

 " Theyre like us ,  "  I said .  

 " Nobody is like us ,  "  Catherine said .  She did not 
mean it happily .  

 " I wish they had some place to go .  "  

 " It mightnt do them any good .  "  *  .  r  

 " I dont know .  Everybody ought to have some place 
to go .  "  

 " They have the cathedral ,  "  Catherine said .  We were 
past it now .  We crossed the far end of the square and 
looked back at the cathedral .  It was fine in the mist 
We were standing in front of the leather goods shop .  
There were riding boots ,  a rucksack and ski boots in 
the window .  Each article was set apart as an exhibit  ;  
the rucksack in the centre ,  the riding boots on one side 
and the ski boots on the other .  The leather was dark 
and oiled smooth as a used saddle .  The electric light 
made high lights on the dull oiled leather .  

 " Well ski some time .  "  

 " In two months there will be ski - ing at Miirren ,  "  
Catherine said .  

 " Lets go there .  "  



158 A FAREWELL TO ARMS 

 " All right ,  "  she said .  We went on past other win -  
dows and turned down a side street .  

 " Ive never been this way .  "  

 " This is the way I go to the hospital ,  "  I said .  It was 
a narrow street and we kept on the right - hand side .  
There were many people passing in the fog .  There 
were shops and all the windows were lighted .  We 
looked in a window at a pile of cheeses .  I stopped in 
front of an armorers shop .  

 " Come in a minute .  I have to buy a gun .  "  

 " What sort of gun ?  "  

 " A pistol .  "  We went in and I unbuttoned my belt 
and laid it with the empty holster on the counter .  Two 
women were behind the counter .  The women brought 
out several pistols .  

 " It must fit this ,  "  I said ,  opening the holster .  It 
was a gray leather holster and I had bought it second -  
hand to wear in the town .  

 " Have they good pistols ?  "  Catherine asked .  

 " Theyre all about the same .  Can I try this one ?  "  
I asked the woman .  

 " I have no place now to shoot ,  "  she said .   " But it 
is very good .  You will not make a mistake with it .  "  

I snapped it and pulled back the action .  The spring 
was rather strong but it worked smoothly .  I sighted 
it and snapped it again .  

 " It is used ,  "  the woman said .   " It belonged to an of -  
ficer who was an excellent shot .  "  

 " Did you sell it to him ?  "  

 " Yes .  "  

 " How did you get it back ?  "  

 " From his orderly .  "  

 " Maybe you have mine ,  "  I said .   " How much is 
this ?  "  



A FAREWELL TO ARMS 159 

 " Fifty lire .  It is very cheap .   

 " All right .  I want two extra clips and a box of 
cartridges .  "  

She brought them from under the counter .  

 " Have you any need for a sword  ?  "  she asked .   " I 
have some used swords very cheap .  "  

( Tm going to the front/ I said .  

 " Oh yes ,  then you wont need a sword ,  "  she said .  

I paid for the cartridges and the pistol ,  filled the 
magazine and put it in place ,  put the pistol in my empty 
holster ,  filled the extra clips with cartridges and put 
them in the leather slots on the holster and then buckled 
on my belt .  The pistol felt heavy on the belt .  Still ,  I 
thought ,  it was better to have a regulation pistol .  You 
could always get shells .  

 " Now were fully armed ,  "  I said .   " That was the one 
thing I had to remember to do .  Some one got my 
other one going to the hospital .  "  

 " I hope its a good pistol ,  "  Catherine said .  

 " Was there anything else ?  "  the woman asked .  

 " I dont believe so .  "  

 " The pistol has a lanyard ,  "  she said .  

 " So I noticed .  "  The woman wanted to sell some -  
thing else .  

 " You dont need a whistle ?  "  

 " I dont believe so .  "  

The woman said good - by and we went out onto the 
sidewalk .  Catherine looked in the window .  The wo -  
man looked out and bowed to us .  

 " What are those little mirrors set in wood for ?  "  

 " Theyre for attracting birds .  They twirl them out 
in the field and larks see them and come out and the 
Italians shoot them .  "  

 " They are an ingenious people ,  "  Catherine said .  



160 A FAREWELL TO ARMS 

 " You dont shoot larks do you ,  darling ,  in America  ?  "  

 " Not especially .  "  

We crossed the street and started to walk up the 
other side .  

 " I feel better now/ Catherine said .   " I felt terrible 
when we started .  "  

 " We always feel good when were together .  "  

 " We always will be together .  "  

 " Yes ,  except that Im going away at midnight .  "  

 " Dont think about it ,  darling .  "  

We walked on up the street .  The fog made the lights 
yellow .  

 " Arent you tired ?  "  Catherine asked .  

 " How about you ?  "  

 " Im all - right .  Its fun to walk .  "  

 " But lets not do it too long .  "  

 " No .  "  

We turned down a side street where there were no 
lights and walked in the street .  I stopped and kissed 
Catherine .  While I kissed her I felt her hand on my 
shoulder .  She had pulled my cape around her so it 
covered both of us .  We were standing in the street 
against a high wall .  

 " Lets go some place ,  "  I said .  

 " Good ,  "  said Catherine .  We walked on along the 
street until it came out onto a wider street that was 
beside a canal .  On the other side was a brick wall and 
buildings .  Ahead ,  down the street ,  I saw a street - car 
cross a bridge .  

 " We can get a cab up at the bridge ,  "  I said .  We 
stood on the bridge in the fog waiting for a carriage .  
Several street - cars passed ,  full of people going home .  
Then a carriage came along but there was some one in 
it .  The fog was turning to rain .  



A FAREWELL TO ARMS 161 

 " We could walk or take a tram ,  "  Catherine said .  

 " One will be along ,  "  I said .   " They go by here .  "  

 " Here one comes ,  "  she said .  

The driver stopped his horse and lowered the metal 
sign on his meter .  The top of the carriage was up and 
there were drops of water on the drivers coat .  His 
varnished hat was shining in the wet .  We sat back in 
the seat together and the top of the carriage made it 
dark .  

 " Where did you tell him to go ?  "  

 " To the station .  Theres a hotel across from the sta -  
tion where we can go .  "  

 " We can go the way we are ?  Without luggage ?  "  

 " Yes ,  "  I said .  

It was a long ride to the station up side streets in the 
rain .  

 " Wont we have dinner ?  "  Catherine asked .   " Im 
afraid Ill be hungry .  "  

 " Well have it in our room .  "  

 " I havent anything to wear .  I havent even a night -  
gown .  "  

 " Well get one ,  "  I said and called to the driver .  

 " Go to the Via Manzoni and up that .  "  He nodded 
and turned off to the left at the next corner .  On the 
big street Catherine watched for a shop .  

 " Heres a place ,  "  she said .  I stopped the driver and 
Catherine got out ,  walked across the sidewalk and went 
inside .  I sat back in the carriage and waited for her .  
It was raining and I could smell the wet street and the 
horse steaming in the rain .  She came back with a 
package and got in and we drove on .  

 " I was very extravagant ,  darling ,  "  she said ,   " but its 
a fine nightgown .  "  

At the hotel I asked Catherine to wait in the carriage 



162 A FAREWELL TO ARMS 

while I went in and spoke to the manager .  There were 
plenty of rooms .  Then I went out to the carriage ,  paid 
the driver ,  and Catherine and I walked in together .  
The small boy in buttons carried the package .  The 
manager bowed us toward the elevator .  There was 
much red plush and brass .  The manager went up in the 
elevator with us .  

 " Monsieur and Madame wish dinner in their room  ?  "  

 " Yes .  Will you have the menu brought up ?  "  I said .  

 " You wish something special for dinner .  Some 
game or a soufflet ?  "  

The elevator passed three floors with a click each 
time ,  then clicked and stopped .  

 " What have you as game ?  "  

 " I could get a pheasant ,  or a woodcock .  "  

 " A woodcock ,  "  I said .  We walked down the corri -  
dor .  The carpet was worn .  There were many doors .  The 
manager stopped and unlocked a door and opened it .  

 " Here you are .  A lovely room .  "  

The small boy in buttons put the package on the table 
in the centre of the room .  The manager opened the 
curtains .  

 " It is foggy outside ,  "  he said .  The room was fur -  
nished in red plush .  There were many mirrors ,  two 
chairs and a large bed with a satin coverlet .  A door 
led to the bathroom .  

 " I will send up the menu ,  "  the manager said .  He 
bowed and went out 

I went to the window and looked out ,  then pulled a 
cord that shut the thick plush curtains .  Catherine was 
sitting on the bed ,  looking at the cut glass chandelier .  
She had taken her hat off and her hair shone under the 
light .  She saw herself in one of the mirrors and put 
her hands to her hair .  I saw her in three other mir -  



A FAREWELL TO ARMS 163 

rors .  She did not look happy .  She let her cape fall on 
the bed .  

 " Whats the matter ,  darling ?  "  

 " I never felt like a whore before ,  "  she said .  I went 
over to the window and pulled the curtain aside and 
looked out I had not thought it would be like this .  

 " Youre not a whore .  "  

 " I know it ,  darling .  But it isnt nice to feel like one .  "  
Her voice was dry and flat .  

 " This was the best hotel we could get in ,  "  I said .  I 
looked out the window .  Across the square were the 
lights of the station .  There were carriages going by 
on the street and I saw the trees in the park .  The lights 
from the hotel shone on the wet pavement .  Oh ,  hell ,  
I thought ,  do we have to argue now  ?  

 " Come over here please ,  "  Catherine said .  The flat -  
ness was all gone out of her voice .   " Come over ,  please .  
Im a good girl again .  "  I looked over at the bed .  She 
was smiling .  

I went over and sat on the bed beside her and kissed 
her .  

 " Youre my good girl .  "  

 " Im certainly yours ,  "  she said .  

After we had eaten we felt fine ,  and then after ,  we 
felt very happy and in a little time the room felt like 
our own home .  My room at the hospital had been our 
own home and this room was our home too in the same 
way .  

Catherine wore my tunic over her shoulders while 
we ate .  We were very hungry and the meal was good 
and we drank a bottle of Capri and a bottle of St .  
Estephe .  I drank most of it but Catherine drank some 
and it made her feel splendid .  For dinner we had a 



164 A FAREWELL TO ARMS 

woodcock with souffle potatoes and puree de marron ,  a 
salad ,  and zabaione for dessert .  

 " Its a fine room ,  "  Catherine said .   " Its a lovely 
room .  We should have stayed here all the time weve 
been in Milan .  "  

 " Its a funny room .  But its nice .  "  

 " Vice is a wonderful thing ,  "  Catherine said .   " The 
people who go in for it seem to have good taste about 
it .  The red plush is really fine .  Its just the thing .  
And the mirrors are very attractive .  "  

 " Youre a lovely girl .  "  

 " I dont know how a room like this would be for 
waking up in the morning .  But its really a splendid 
room .  "  I poured another glass of St .  Estephe .  

 " I wish we could do something really sinful ,  "  Cath -  
erine said .   " Everything we do seems so innocent and 
simple .  I cant believe we do anything wrong .  "  

 " Youre a grand girl .  "  

 " I only feel hungry .  I get terribly hungry .  "  

 " Youre a fine simple girl ,  "  I said .  

 " I am a simple girl .  No one ever understood it ex -  
cept you .  "  

 " Once when I first met you I spent an afternoon 
thinking how we would go to the Hotel Cavour to -  
gether and how it would be .  "  

 " That was awfully cheeky of you .  This isnt the 
Cavour is it ?  "  

 " No .  They wouldnt have taken us in there .  "  

 " Theyll take us in some time .  But thats how we 
differ ,  darling .  I never thought about anything .  "  

 " Didnt you ever at all ?  "  

 " A little ,  "  she said .  

 " Oh youre a lovely girl .  "  

I poured another glass of wine .  



A FAREWELL TO ARMS 165 

 " Im a very simple girl ,  "  Catherine said .  

 " I didnt think so at first .  I thought you were a 
crazy girl .  "  

 " I was a little crazy .  But I wasnt crazy in any com -  
plicated manner .  I didnt confuse you did I ,  darling ?  "  

 " Wine is a grand thing ,  "  I said .   " It makes you for -  
get all the bad .  "  

 " Its lovely ,  "  said Catherine .   " But its given my fa -  
ther gout very badly .  "  

 " Have you a father ?  "  

 " Yes ,  "  said Catherine .   " He has gout .  You wont 
ever have to meet him .  Havent you a father ?  "  

 " No ,  "  I said .   " A step - father .  "  

 " Will I like him ?  "  

 " You wont have to meet him .  "  

 " We have such a fine time ,  "  Catherine said .   " I dont 
take any interest in anything else any more .  Im so 
very happy married to you .  "  

The waiter came and took away the things .  After a 
while we were very still and we could hear the rain .  
Down below on the street a motor car honked .  

 "  But at my back I always hear 

Times winged chariot hurrying near ,   "  

I said .  

 " I know that poem ,  "  Catherine said .   " Its by Marvell .  
But its about a girl who wouldnt live with a man .  "  

My head felt very clear and cold and I wanted to 
talk facts .  

 " Where will you have the baby ?  "  

 " I dont know .  The best place I can find .  "  

 " How will you arrange it ?  "  

 " The best way I can .  Dont worry ,  darling .  We 
may have several babies before the war is over .  "  



1 66 A FAREWELL TO ARMS 

 " Its nearly time to go .  "  

 " I know .  You can make it time if you want .  "  

 " No .  "  

 " Then dont worry ,  darling .  You were fine until now 
and now youre worrying .  "  

 " I wont .  How often will you write ?  "  

 " Every day .  Do they read your letters ?  "  

 " They cant read English enough to hurt any .  "  

 " Ill make them very confusing ,  "  Catherine said .  

 " But not too confusing .  "  

 " Ill just make them a little confusing .  "  

 " Im afraid we have to start to go .  "  

 " All right ,  darling .  "  

 " I hate to leave our fine house .  "  

 " So do I .  "  

 " But we have to go .  "  

 "  . All right .  But were never settled in our home 
very long .  "  

 " We will be .  "  

 " Ill have a fine home for you when you come back .  "  

 " Maybe Ill be back right away .  "  

 " Perhaps youll be hurt just a little in the foot .  "  

 " Or the lobe of the ear .  "  

 " No I want your ears the way they are .  "  

 " And not my feet ?  "  

 " Your feet have been hit already .  "  

 " We have to go ,  darling .  Really .  "  

 " All right .  You go first .  "  



CHAPTER XXIV 

We walked down the ,  stairs instead of taking the 
elevator .  The carpet on the stairs was worn .  I had 
paid for the dinner when it came up and the waiter ,  
who had brought it ,  was sitting on a chair near the 
door .  He jumped up and bowed and I went with him 
into the side room and paid the bill for the room .  The 
manager had remembered me as a friend and refused 
payment in advance but when he retired he had remem -  
bered to have the waiter stationed at the door so that 
I should not get out without paying .  I suppose that 
had happened  ;  even with his friends .  One had so many 
friends in a war .  

I asked the waiter to get us a carriage and he took 
Catherines package that I was carrying and went out 
with an umbrella .  Outside through the window we 
saw him crossing the street in the rain .  We stood in 
the side room and looked out the window .  

 " How do you feel ,  Cat ?  "  

 " Sleepy .  "  

 " I feel hollow and hungry .  "  

 " Have you anything to eat ?  "  

 " Yes ,  in my musette .  "  

I saw the carriage coming .  It stopped ,  the horses 
head hanging in the rain ,  and the waiter stepped out ,  
opened his umbrella ,  and came toward the hotel .  We 
met him at the door and walked out under the um -  
brella down the wet walk to the carriage at the curb .  
Water was running in the gutter .  

 " There is your package on the seat ,  "  the waiter said .  
He stood with the umbrella until we were in and I had 
tipped him .  

167 



168 A FAREWELL TO ARMS 

 " Many thanks .  Pleasant journey/  he said .  The 
coachman lifted the reins and the horse started .  The 
waiter turned away under the umbrella and went to -  
ward the hotel .  We drove down the street and turned 
to the left ,  then came around to the right in front of 
the station .  There were two carabinieri standing under 
the light just out of the rain .  The light shone on their 
hats .  The rain was clear and transparent against the 
light from the station .  A porter came out from under 
the shelter of the station ,  his shoulders up against the 
rain .  

 " No ,  "  I said .   " Thanks .  I dont need thee .  "  

He went back under the shelter of the archway .  I 
turned to Catherine .  Her face was in the shadow from 
the hood of the carriage .  

 " We might as well say good - by .  "  

 " I cant go in ?  "  

 " No .  "  

 " Good - by ,  Cat .  "  

 " Will you tell him the hospital ?  "  

 " Yes .  "  

I told the driver the address to drive to .  He 
nodded .  

 " Good - by ,  "  I said .   " Take good care of yourself and 
young Catherine .  "  

 " Good - by ,  darling .  "  

 " Good - by ,  "  I said .  I stepped out into the rain and 
the carriage started .  Catherine leaned out and I saw 
her face in the light .  She smiled and waved .  The 
carriage went up the street ,  Catherine pointed in to -  
ward the archway .  I looked ,  there were only the two 
carabinieri and the archway .  I realized she meant for 
me to get in out of the rain .  I went in and stood and 
watched the carriage turn the corner .  Then I started 



A FAREWELL TO ARMS 169 

through the station and down the runway to the train .  

The porter was on the platform looking for me .  I 
followed him into the train ,  crowding past people and 
along the aisle and in through a door to where the 
machine - gunner sat in the corner of a full compart -  
ment .  My rucksack and musettes were above his head 
on the luggage rack .  There were many men standing 
in the corridor and the men in the compartment all 
looked at us when we came in .  There were not enough 
places in the train and every one was hostile .  The ma -  
chine - gunner stood up for me to sit down .  Some one 
tapped me on the shoulder .  I looked around .  It was 
a very tall gaunt captain of artillery with a red scar 
along his jaw .  He had looked through the glass on the 
corridor and then come in .  

 " What do you say ?  "  I asked .  I had turned and 
faced him .  He was taller than I and his face was 
very thin under the shadow of his cap - visor and thtf 
scar was new and shiny .  Every one in the compart -  
ment was looking at me .  

 " You cant do that ,  "  he said .   " You cant have a 
soldier save you a place .  "  

 " I have done it .  "  

He swallowed and I saw his Adams apple go up 
and then down .  The machine - gunner stood in front of 
the place .  Other men looked in through the glass .  No 
one in the compartment said anything .  

 " You have no right to do that .  I was here two hours 
before you came .  "  

 " What do you want ?  "  

 " The seat .  "  

 " So do I .  "  

I watched his face and could feel the whole com -  
partment against me .  I did not blame them .  He was 



170 A FAREWELL TO ARMS 

in the right .  But I wanted the seat .  Still no one said 
anything .  

Oh ,  hell ,  I thought .  

 " Sit down ,  Signor Capitano ,  "  I said .  The machine -  
gunner moved out of the way and the tall captain sat 
down .  He looked at me .  His face seemed hurt .  But 
he had the seat  " Get my things ,  "  I said to the ma -  
chine - gunner .  We went out in the corridor .  The train 
was full and I knew there was no chance of a place .  I 
gave the porter and the machine - gunner ten lire apiece .  
They went down the corridor and outside on the plat -  
form looking in the windows but there were no places .  

 " Maybe some will get off at Brescia ,  "  the porter 
said .  

 " More will get on at Brescia ,  "  said the machine -  
gunner .  I said good - by to them and we shook hands 
and they left They both felt badly .  Inside the train 
we were all standing in the corridor when the train 
started .  I watched the lights of the station and the 
yards as we went out .  It was still raining and soon the 
windows were wet and you could not see out .  Later 
I slept on the floor of the corridor ;  first putting my 
pocket - book with my money and papers in it inside my 
shirt and trousers so that it was inside the leg of my 
breeches .  I slept all night ,  waking at Brescia and 
Verona when more men got on the train ,  but going back 
to sleep at once .  I had my head on one of the musettes 
and my arms around the other and I could feel the 
pack and they could all walk over me if they wouldnt 
step on me .  Men were sleeping on the floor all down 
the corridor .  Others stood holding on to the window 
rods or leaning against the doors .  That train was al -  
ways crowded .  



BOOK III 



CHAPTER XXV 

Now in the fall the trees were all bare and the roads 
were muddy .  I rode to Gorizia from Udine on a 
camion .  We passed other camions on the road and I 
looked at the country .  The mulberry trees were bare 
and the fields were brown .  There were wet dead leaves 
on the road from the rows of bare trees and men were 
working on the road ,  tamping stone in the ruts from 
piles of crushed stone along the side of the road be -  
tween the trees .  We saw the town with a mist over it 
that cut off the mountains .  We crossed the river and I 
saw that it was running high .  It had been raining in 
the mountains .  We came into the town past the fac -  
tories and then the houses and villas and I saw that 
many more houses had been hit .  On a narrow street we 
passed a British Red Cross ambulance .  The driver 
wore a cap and his face was thin and very tanned .  I 
did not know him .  I got down from the camion in 
the big square in front of the Town Majors house ,  the 
driver handed down my rucksack and I put it on and 
swung on the two musettes and walked to our villa .  It 
did not feel like a homecoming .  

I walked down the damp gravel driveway looking 
at the villa through the trees .  The windows were all 
shut but the door was open .  I went in and found the 
major sitting at a table in the bare room with maps and 
typed sheets of paper on the wall .  

 " Hello ,  "  he said .   " How are you ?  "  He looked older 
and drier .  

 " Im good ,  "  I said .   " How is everything ?  "  

 " Its all over ,  "  he said .   " Take off your kit and sit 
173 



174 A FAREWELL TO ARMS 

down .  "  I put my pack and the two musettes on the 
floor and my cap on the pack .  I brought the other 
chair over from the wall and sat down by the desk .  

 " Its been a bad summer ,  "  the major said .   " Are you 
strong now  ?  "  

 " Yes .  "  

 " Did you ever get the decorations ?  "  

 " Yes .  I got them fine .  Thank you very much .  "  

 " Lets see them .  "  

I opened my cape so he could see the two ribbons .  

 " Did you get the boxes with the medals ?  "  

 " No .  Just the papers .  "  

 " The boxes will come later .  That takes more time .  "  

 " What do you want me to do ?  "  

 " The cars are all away .  There are six up north at 
Caporetto .  You know Caporetto ?  "  

 " Yes ,  "  I said .  I remembered it as a little white town 
with a campanile in a valley .  It was a clean little town 
and there was a fine fountain in the square .  

 " They are working from there .  There are many sick 
now .  The fighting is over .  "  

 " Where are the others ?  "  

 " There are two up in the mountains and four still 
on the Bainsizza .  The other two ambulance sections 
are in the Carso with the third army .  "  

 " What do you wish me to do ?  "  

 " You can go and take over the four cars on the 
Bainsizza if you like .  Gino has been up there a long 
time .  You havent seen it up there ,  have you ?  "  

 " No .  "  

 " It was very bad .  We lost three cars .  "  

 " I heard about it .  "  

 " Yes ,  Rinaldi wrote you .  "  



A FAREWELL TO ARMS 175 

 " Where is Rinaldi ?  "  

 " He is here at the hospital .  He has had a summer 
and fall of it .  "  

 " I believe it .  "  

 " It has been bad ,  "  the major said .   " You couldnt 
believe how bad its been .  Ive often thought you were 
lucky to be hit when you were .  "  

 " I know I was .  "  

 " Next year will be worse ,  "  the major said .   " Per -  
haps they will attack now .  They say they are to attack 
but I cant believe it .  It is too late .  You saw the 
river ?  "  

 " Yes .  Its high already .  "  

 " I dont believe they will attack now that the rains 
have started .  We will have the snow soon .  What 
about your countrymen ?  Will there be other Ameri -  
cans besides yourself ?  "  

 " They are training an army of ten million .  "  

 " I hope we get some of them .  But the French will 
hog them all .  Well never get any down here .  All 
right .  You stay here to - night and go out to - morrow 
with the little car and send Gino back .  Ill send some -  
body with you that knows the road .  Gino will tell you 
everything .  They are shelling quite a little still but it 
is all over .  You will want to see the Bainsizza .  "  

 " Im glad to see it .  I am glad to be back with you 
again ,  Signor Maggiore .  "  

He smiled .   " You are very good to say so .  I am 
very tired of this war .  If I was away I do not believe 
I would come back .  "  

 " Is it so bad ?  "  

 " Yes .  It is so bad and worse .  Go get cleaned up 
and find your friend Rinaldi .  "  

I went out and carried my bags up the stairs .  Ri -  



176 A FAREWELL TO ARMS 

naldi was not in the room but his things were there and 
I sat down on the bed and unwrapped my puttees and 
took the shoe off my right foot .  Then I lay back on the 
bed .  I was tired and my right foot hurt .  It seemed 
silly to lie on the bed with one shoe off ,  so I sat up and 
unlaced the other shoe and dropped it on the floor ,  then 
lay back on the blanket again .  The room was stuffy 
with the window closed but I was too tired to get up 
and open it .  I saw my things were all in one corner of 
the room .  Outside it was getting dark .  I lay on the 
bed and thought about Catherine and waited for Ri -  
naldi .  I was going to try not to think about Catherine 
except at night before I went to sleep .  But now I was 
tired and there was nothing to do ,  so I lay and thought 
about her .  I was thinking about her when Rinaldi 
came in .  He looked just the same .  Perhaps he was a 
little thinner .  

 " Well ,  baby ,  "  he said .  I sat up on the bed .  He 
came over ,  sat down and put his arm around me .  
 " Good old baby .  "  He whacked me on the back and 
I held both his arms .  

 " Old baby ,  "  he said .   " Let me see your knee .  "  

 " Ill have to take off my pants .  "  

 " Take off your pants ,  baby .  Were all friends here .  
I want to see what kind of a job they did .  "  I stood up ,  
took off the breeches and pulled off the knee - brace .  
Rinaldi sat on the floor and bent the knee gently back 
and forth .  He ran his finger along the scar ;  put his 
thumbs together over the kneecap and rocked the knee 
gently with his fingers .  

 " Is that all the articulation you have ?  "  

 " Yes .  "  

 " Its a crime to send you back .  They ought to get 
complete articulation .  "  



A FAREWELL TO ARMS 177 

 " Its a lot better than it was .  It was stiff as a 
board .  "  

Rinaldi bent it more .  I watched his hands .  He had 
fine surgeons hands .  I looked at the top of his head ,  
his hair shiny and parted smoothly .  He bent the knee 
too far .  

 " Ouch !  "  I said .  

 " You ought to have more treatment on it with the 
machines ,  "  Rinaldi said .  

 " Its better than it was .  "  

 " I see that ,  baby .  This is something I know more 
about than you .  "  He stood up and sat down on the 
bed .   " The knee itself is a good job .  "  He was through 
with the knee .   " Tell me all about everything .  "  

 " Theres nothing to tell ,  "  I said .   " Ive led a quiet 
life .  "  

 " You act like a married man ,  "  he said .   " Whats the 
matter with you ?  "  

 " Nothing ,  "  I said .   " Whats the matter with you ?  "  

 " This war is killing me ,  "  Rinaldi said ,   " I am very 
depressed by it .  "  He folded his hands over his knee .  

 " Oh ,  "  I said .  

 " Whats the matter ?  Cant I even have human im -  
pulses  ?  "  

 " No .  I can see youve been having a fine time .  Tell 
me .  "  

 " All summer and all fall Ive operated .  I work all 
the time .  I do everybodys work .  All the hard ones 
they leave to me .  By God ,  baby ,  I am becoming a 
lovely surgeon .  "  

 " That sounds better .  "  

 " I never think .  No ,  by God ,  I dont think ;  I oper -  
ate .  "  

 " Thats right .  "  



178 A FAREWELL TO ARMS 

 " But now ,  baby ,  its all over .  I dont operate now 
and I feel like hell .  This is a terrible war ,  baby .  You 
believe me when I say it .  Now you cheer me up .  Did 
you bring the phonograph records  ?  "  

 " Yes .  "  

They were wrapped in paper in a cardboard box in 
my rucksack .  I was too tired to get them out .  

 " Dont you feel good yourself ,  baby ?  "  

 " I feel like hell .  "  

 " This war is terrible ,  "  Rinaldi said .   " Come on .  
Well both get drunk and be cheerful .  Then well go 
get the ashes dragged .  Then well feel fine .  "  

 " Ive had the jaundice ,  "  I said ,   " and I cant get 
drunk .  "  

 " Oh ,  baby ,  how youve come back to me .  You come 
back serious and with a liver .  I tell you this war is a 
bad thing .  Why did we make it anyway ?  "  

 " Well have a drink .  I dont want to get drunk but 
well have a drink .  "  

Rinaldi went across the room to the washstand and 
brought back two glasses and a bottle of cognac .  

 " Its Austrian cognac ,  "  he said .   " Seven stars .  Its 
all they captured on San Gabriele .  "  

 " Were you up there ?  "  

 " No .  I havent been anywhere .  Ive been here all 
the time operating .  Look ,  baby ,  this is your old tooth -  
brushing glass .  I kept it all the time to remind me of 
you .  "  

 " To remind you to brush your teeth .  "  

 " No .  I have my own too .  I kept this to remind 
me of you trying to brush away the Villa Rossa from 
your teeth in the morning ,  swearing and eating aspi -  
rin and cursing harlots .  Every time I see that glass I 
think of you trying to clean your conscience with a 



A FAREWELL TO ARMS 179 

toothbrush .  "  He came over to the bed .   " Kiss me 
once and tell me youre not serious .  "  

 " I never kiss you .  Youre an ape .  "  

 " I know ,  you are the fine good Anglo - Saxon boy .  I 
know .  You are the remorse boy ,  I know .  I will wait 
till I see the Anglo - Saxon brushing away harlotry 
with a toothbrush .  "  

 " Put some cognac in the glass .  "  

We touched glasses and drank .  Rinaldi laughed at 
me .  

 " I will get you drunk and take out your liver and put 
you in a good Italian liver and make you a man 
again .  "  

I held the glass for some more cognac .  It was dark 
outside now .  Holding the glass of cognac ,  I went over 
and opened the window .  The rain had stopped falling .  
It was colder outside and there was a mist in the trees .  

 " Dont throw the cognac out the window ,  "  Rinaldi 
said .   " If you cant drink it give it to me .  "  

 " Go something yourself ,  "  I said .  I was glad to see 
Rinaldi again .  He had spent two years teasing me and 
I had always liked it .  We understood each other very 
well .  

 " Are you married ?  "  he asked from the bed .  I was 
standing against the wall by the window .  

 " Not yet .  "  

 " Are you in love ?  "  

 " Yes .  "  

 " With that English girl ?  "  

 " Yes .  "  

 " Poor baby .  Is she good to you ?  "  

 " Of course .  "  

 " I mean is she good to you practically speaking ?  "  

 " Shut up .  "  



180 A FAREWELL TO ARMS 

 " I will .  You will see I am a man of extreme deli -  
cacy .  Does she  ?  "  

 " Rinin ,  "  I said .   " Please shut up .  If you want to 
be my friend ,  shut up .  "  

 " I dont want to be your friend ,  baby .  I am your 
friend .  "  

 " Then shut up .  "  

 " All right .  "  

I went over to the bed and sat down beside Rinaldi .  
He was holding his glass and looking at the floor .  

 " You see how it is ,  Rinin ?  "  

 " Oh ,  yes .  All my life I encounter sacred subjects .  
But very few with you .  I suppose you must have them 
too .  "  He looked at the floor .  

 " You havent any ?  "  

 " No .  "  

 " Not any ?  "  

 " No .  "  

 " I can say this about your mother and that about 
your sister ?  "  

 " And that about your sister/ Rinaldi said swiftly .  
We both laughed .  

 " The old superman ,  "  I said .  

 " I am jealous maybe ,  "  Rinaldi said .  

 " No ,  youre not .  "  

 " I dont mean like that .  I mean something else .  
Have you any married friends ?  "  

 " Yes ,  "  I said .  

 " I havent ,  "  Rinaldi said .   " Not if they love each 
other .  "  

 " Why not ?  "  

 " They dont like me .  "  

 " Why not ?  "  



A FAREWELL TO ARMS 181 

 " I am the snake .  I am the snake of reason/  

 " Youre getting it mixed .  The apple was reason .  "  

 " No ,  it was the snake .  "  He was more cheerful .  

 " You are better when you dont think so deeply ,  "  I 
said .  

 " I love you ,  baby ,  "  he said .   " You puncture me when 
I become a great Italian thinker .  But I know many 
things I cant say .  I know more than you .  "  

 " Yes .  You do .  "  

 " But you will have a better time .  Even with re -  
morse you will have a better time .  "  

 " I dont think so .  "  

 " Oh ,  yes .  That is true .  Already I am only happy 
when I am working .  "  He looked at the floor again .  

 " Youll get over that .  "  

 " No .  I only like two other things ;  one is bad for 
my work and the other is over in half an hour or 
fifteen minutes .  Sometimes less .  "  

 " Sometimes a good deal less .  "  

 " Perhaps I have improved ,  baby .  You do not know .  
But there are only the two things and my work .  "  

 " Youll get other things .  "  

 " No .  We never get anything .  We are born with all 
we have and we never learn .  We never get anything 
new .  We all start complete .  You should be glad not 
to be a Latin .  "  

 " Theres no such thing as a Latin .  That is Latin 
thinking .  You are so proud of your defects .  "  Rinaldi 
looked up and laughed .  

 " Well stop ,  baby .  I am tired from thinking so 
much .  "  He had looked tired when he came in .   " Its 
nearly time to eat .  Im glad youre back .  You are my 
best friend and my war brother .  "  

 " When do the war brothers eat ?  "  I asked .  



182 A FAREWELL TO ARMS 

 " Right away .  Well drink once more for your livers 
sake .  "  

 " Like Saint Paul .   ,  ,  

 " You are inaccurate .  That was wine and the stom -  
ach .  Take a little wine for your stomachs sake .  "  

 " Whatever you have in the bottle ,  "  I said .   " For 
any sake you mention .  "  

 " To your girl ,  "  Rinaldi said .  He held out his glass .  

 " All right .  "  

 " Ill never say a dirty thing about her .  "  

 " Dont strain yourself .  "  

He drank off the cognac .   " I am pure ,  "  he said .  
 " I am like you ,  baby .  I will get an English girl too .  
As a matter of fact I knew your girl first but she was 
a little tall for me .  A tall girl for a sister ,  "  he quoted .  

 " You have a lovely pure mind ,  "  I said .  

 " Havent I  ?  Thats why they call me Rinaldo Puris -  
simo .  "  

 " Rinaldo Sporchissimo .  "  

 " Come on ,  baby ,  well go down to eat while my mind 
is still pure .  "  

I washed ,  combed my hair and we went down the 
stairs .  Rinaldi was a little drunk .  In the room where 
we ate ,  the meal was not quite ready .  

 " Ill go get the bottle ,  "  Rinaldi said .  He went off 
up the stairs .  I sat at the table and he came back with 
the bottle and poured us each a half tumbler of cognac .  

 " Too much ,  "  I said and held up the glass and sighted 
at the lamp on the table .  

 " Not for an empty stomach .  It is a wonderful thing .  
It burns out the stomach completely .  Nothing is worse 
for you .  "  

 " All right "  



A FAREWELL TO ARMS 183 

 " Self  - destruction day by day ,  "  Rinaldi said .   " It 
ruins the stomach and makes the hand shake .  Just the 
thing for a surgeon .  "  

 " You recommend it ?  "  

 " Heartily .  I use no other .  Drink it down ,  baby ,  and 
look forward to being sick .  "  

I drank half the glass .  In the hall I could hear the 
orderly calling .   " Soup  !  Soup is ready  !  "  

The major came in ,  nodded to us and sat down .  He 
seemed very small at table .  

 " Is this all we are ?  "  he asked .  The orderly put the 
soup bowl down and he ladled out a plate full .  

 " We are all ,  "  Rinaldi said .   " Unless the priest 
comes .  If he knew Federico was here he would be 
here .  "  

 " Where is he ?  "  I asked .  

 " Hes at 307 ,  "  the major said .  He was busy with 
his soup .  He wiped his mouth ,  wiping his upturned 
gray mustache carefully .   " He will come I think .  I 
called them and left word to tell him you were ,  here .  "  

 " I miss the noise of the mess ,  "  I said .  

 " Yes ,  its quiet ,  "  the major said .  

 " I will be noisy ,  "  said Rinaldi .  

 " Drink some wine ,  Enrico ,  "  said the major .  He 
filled my glass .  The spaghetti came in and we were all 
busy .  We were finishing the spaghetti when the priest 
came in .  He was the same as ever ,  small and brown 
and compact looking .  I stood up and we shook hands .  
He put his hand on my shoulder .  

 " I came as soon as I heard ,  "  he said .  

 " Sit down ,  "  the major said .   " Youre late .  "  

 " Good - evening ,  priest ,  "  Rinaldi said ,  using the Eng -  
lish word .  They had taken that up from the priest - bait -  
ing captain ,  who spoke a little English .   " Good - evening ,  



i8 4 A FAREWELL TO ARMS 

Rinaldo ,  "  the priest said .  The orderly brought him 
soup but he said he would start with the spaghetti .  

 " How are you ?  "  he asked me .  

 " Fine ,  "  I said .   " How have things been ?  "  

 " Drink some wine ,  priest ,  "  Rinaldi said .   " Take a lit -  
tle wine for your stomachs sake .  Thats Saint Paul ,  
you know .  "  

 " Yes I know ,  "  said the priest politely .  Rinaldi filled 
his glass .  

 " That Saint Paul ,  "  said Rinaldi .   " Hes the one who 
makes all the trouble .  "  The priest looked at me and 
smiled .  I could see that the baiting did not touch him 
now .  

 " That Saint Paul ,  "  Rinaldi said .   " He was a rounder 
and a chaser and then when he was no longer hot he 
said it was no good .  When he was finished he made 
the rules for us who are still hot .  Isnt it true ,  Fede -  
rico ?  "  

The major smiled .  We were eating meat stew now .  

 " I never discuss a Saint after dark ,  "  I said .  The 
priest looked up from the stew and smiled at me .  

 " There he is ,  gone over with the priest ,  "  Rinaldi 
said .   " Where are all the good old priest - baiters ?  
Where is Cavalcanti ?  Where is Brundi ?  Where is 
Cesare ?  Do I have to bait this priest alone without 
support  ?  "  

 " He is a good priest ,  "  said the major .  

 " He is a good priest ,  "  said Rinaldi .   " But still a 
priest .  I try to make the mess like the old days .  I want 
to make Federico happy .  To hell with you ,  priest !  "  

I saw the major look at him and notice that he was 
drunk .  His thin face was white .  The line of his hair 
was very black against the white of his forehead .  



A FAREWELL TO ARMS 185 

 " Its all right ,  Rinaldo ,  "  said the priest .   " Its all 
right .  "  

 " To hell with you ,  "  said Rinaldi .   " To hell with the 
whole damn business .  "  He sat back in his chair .  

 " Hes been under a strain and hes tired ,  "  the major 
said to me .  He finished his meat and wiped up the 
gravy with a piece of bread .  

 " I dont give a damn ,  "  Rinaldi said to the table .   " To 
hell with the whole business .  "  He looked defiantly 
around the table ,  his eyes flat ,  his face pale .  

 " All right ,  "  I said .   " To hell with the whole damn 
business .  "  

 " No ,  no ,  "  said Rinaldi .   " You cant do it .  You cant 
do it .  I say you cant do it .  Youre dry and youre 
empty and theres nothing else .  Theres nothing else I 
tell you .  Not a damned thing .  I know ,  when I stop 
working .  "  

The priest shook his head .  The orderly took away 
the stew dish .  

 " What are you eating meat for ?  "  Rinaldi turned 
to the priest .   " Don you know its Friday ?  "  

 " Its Thursday ,  "  the priest said .  

 " Its a lie .  Its Friday .  Youre eating the body of 
our Lord .  Its God - meat .  I know .  Its dead Austrian .  
Thats what youre eating .  "  

 " The white meat is from officers ,  "  I said ,  completing 
the old joke .  

Rinaldi laughed .  He filled his glass .  

 " Dont mind me ,  "  he said .   " Im just a little crazy .  "  

 " You ought to have a leave ,  "  the priest said .  

The major shook his head at him .  Rinaldi looked at 
the priest .  

 " You think I ought to have a leave ?  "  



186 A FAREWELL TO ARMS 

The major shook his head at the priest .  Rinaldi was 
looking at the priest .  

 " Just as you like ,  "  the priest said .   " Not if you dont 
want .  "  

 " To hell with you/ Rinaldi said .   " They try to get 
rid of me .  Every night they try to get rid of me .  I 
fight them off .  What if I have it .  Everybody has it .  
The whole worlds got it .  First ,  "  he went on ,  assum -  
ing the manner of a lecturer ,   " its a little pimple .  Then 
we notice a rash between the shoulders .  Then we notice 
nothing at all .  We put our faith in mercury .  "  

 " Or salvarsan ,  "  the major interrupted quietly .  

 " A mercurial product ,  "  Rinaldi said .  He acted very 
elated now .   " I know something worth two of that .  
Good old priest ,  "  he said .   " Youll never get it .  Baby 
will get it .  Its an industrial accident .  Its a simple 
industrial accident .  "  

The orderly brought in the sweet and coffee .  The 
dessert was a sort of black bread pudding with hard 
sauce .  The lamp was smoking  ;  the black smoke going 
close up inside the chimney .  

 " Bring two candles and take away the lamp ,  "  the 
major said .  The orderly brought two lighted candles 
each in a saucer ,  and took out the lamp blowing it out .  
Rinaldi was quiet now .  He seemed all right .  We 
talked and after the coffee we all went out into the hall .  

 " You want to talk to the priest .  I have to go in the 
town ,  "  Rinaldi said .   " Good - night ,  priest .  "  

 " Good - night ,  Rinaldo ,  "  the priest said .  

 " Ill see you Fredi ,  "  Rinaldi said .  

 " Yes ,  "  I said .   " Come in early .  "  He made a face and 
went out the door .  The major was standing with us .  
 " Hes very tired and overworked ,  "  he said .   " He thinks 
too he has syphilis .  I dont believe it but he may have .  



A FAREWELL TO ARMS 187 

He is treating himself for it .  Good - night You will 
leave before daylight ,  Enrico  ?  "  

 " Yes .  "  

 " Good - by then ,  "  he said .   " Good luck .  Peduzzi will 
wake you and go with you .  "  

 " Good - by ,  Signor Maggiore .  "  

 " Good - by .  They talk about an Austrian offensive 
but I dont believe it .  I hope not .  But anyway it wont 
be here .  Gino will tell you everything .  The telephone 
works well now .  "  

Til call regularly .  "  

 " Please do .  Good - night .  Dont let Rinaldi drink so 
much brandy .  "  

 " Ill try not to .  "  

 " Good - night ,  priest .  "  

 " Good - night ,  Signor Maggiore .  "  
 He went off into his office .  



CHAPTER XXVI 

I went to the door and looked out .  It had stopped 
raining but there was a mist .  

 " Should we go upstairs  ?  "  I asked the priest .  

 " I can only stay a little while .  "  

 " Come on up .  "  

We climbed the stairs and went into my room .  I lay 
down on Rinaldis bed .  The priest sat on my cot that 
the orderly had set up .  It was dark in the room .  

 " Well ,  "  he said ,   " how are you really ?  "  

 " Im all right .  Fm tired to - night .  "  

 " Im tired too ,  but from no cause .  "  

 " What about the war ?  "  

 " I think it will be over soon .  I dont know why ,  but 
I feel it .  "  

 " How do you feel it ?  "  

 " You know how your major is ?  Gentle ?  Many 
people are like that now .  "  

 " I feel that way myself ,  "  I said .  

 " It has been a terrible summer ,  "  said the priest .  He 
was surer of himself now than when I had gone away .  
 " You cannot believe how it has been .  Except that you 
have been there and you know how it can be .  Many 
people have realized the war this summer .  Officers 
whom I thought could never realize it realize it now .  "  

 " What will happen ?  "  I stroked the blanket with my 
hand .  

 " I do not know but I do not think it can go on much 
longer .  "  

 " What will happen ?  "  

 " They will stop fighting .  "  
188 



A FAREWELL TO ARMS 189 

 " Who ?  "  

 " Both sides .  "  

 " I hope so ,  "  I said .  

 " You dont believe it ?  "  

 " I dont believe both sides will stop fighting at once .  "  

 " I suppose not .  It is too much to expect .  But when 
I see the changes in men I do not think it can go on .  "  

 " Who won the fighting this summer ?  "  

 " No one .  "  

 " The Austrians won ,  "  I said .   " They kept them from 
taking San Gabriele .  Theyve won .  They wont stop 
fighting .  "  

 " If they feel as we feel they may stop .  They have 
gone through the same thing .  "  

 " No one ever stopped when they were winning .  "  

 " You discourage me .  "  

 " I can only say what I think .  "  

 " Then you think it will go on and on ?  Nothing will 
ever happen ?  "  

 " I dont know .  I only think the Austrians will not 
stop when they have won a victory .  It is in defeat that 
we become Christian .  "  

 " The Austrians are Christians  except for the Bos -  
nians .  "  

 " I dont mean technically Christian .  I mean like Our 
Lord .  "  

He said nothing .  

 " We are all gentler now because we are beaten .  
How would Our Lord have been if Peter had rescued 
him in the Garden  ?  "  

 " He would have been just the same .  "  

 " I dont think so ,  "  I said .  

 " You discourage me ,  "  he said .   " I believe and I pray 
that something will happen .  I have felt it very close .  "  



190 A FAREWELL TO ARMS 

 " Something may happen ,  "  I said .   " But it will hap -  
pen only to us .  If they felt the way we do ,  it would be 
all right .  But they have beaten us .  They feel another 
way .  "  

 " Many of the soldiers have always felt this way .  It 
is not because they were beaten .  "  

 " They were beaten to start with .  They were beaten 
when they took them from their farms and put them 
in the army .  That is why the peasant has wisdom ,  be -  
cause he is defeated from the start .  Put him in power 
and see how wise he is .  "  

He did not say anything .  He was thinking .  

 " Now I am depressed myself ,  "  I said .   " Thats why 
I never think about these things .  I never think and 
yet when I begin to talk I say the things I have found 
out in my mind without thinking .  "  

 " I had hoped for something .  "  

 " Defeat ?  "  

 " No .  Something more .  "  

 " There isnt anything more .  Except victory .  It may 
be worse .  "  

 " I hoped for a long time for victory .  "  

 " Me too .  "  

 " Now I dont know .  "  

 " It has to be one or the other .  "  

 " I dont believe in victory any more .  "  

 " I dont But I dont believe in defeat .  Though it 
may be better .  "  

 " What do you believe in ?  "  

 " In sleep ,  "  I said .  He stood up .  

 " I am very sorry to have stayed so long .  But I like 
so to talk with you .  "  

 " It is very nice to talk again .  I said that about sleep -  
ing ,  meaning nothing .  "  



A FAREWELL TO ARMS 191 

We stood up and shook hands in the dark .  

 " I sleep at 307 now ,  "  he said .  

 " I go out on post early to - morrow .  "  

 " Ill see you when you come back .  "  

 " Well have a walk and talk together .  "  I walked 
with him to the door .  

 " Dont go down ,  "  he said .   " It is very nice that you 
are back .  Though not so nice for you .  "  He put his 
hand on my shoulder .  

 " Its all right for me ,  "  I said .   " Good - night .  "  

 " Good - night .  Ciaou  !  "  

 " Ciaou !  "  I said .  I was deadly sleepy .  




CHAPTER XXVII 

I woke when Rinaldi came in but he did not talk 
and I went back to sleep again .  In the morning I was 
dressed and gone before it was light .  Rinaldi did not 
wake when I left .  

I had not seen the Bainsizza before and it was strange 
to go up the slope where the Austrians had been ,  be -  
yond the place on the river where I had been wounded .  
There was a steep new road and many trucks .  Beyond ,  
the road flattened out and I saw woods and steep hills 
in the mist .  There were woods that had been taken 
quickly and not smashed .  Then beyond where the road 
was not protected by the hills it was screened by mat -  
ting on the sides and over the top .  The road ended in 
a wrecked village .  The lines were up beyond .  There 
was much artillery around .  The houses were badly 
smashed but things were very well organized and there 
were signboards everywhere .  We found Gino and he 
got us some coffee and later I went with him and met 
various people and saw the posts .  Gino said the Brit -  
ish cars were working further down the Bainsizza at 
Ravne .  He had great admiration for the British .  There 
was still a certain amount of shelling ,  he said ,  but not 
many wounded .  There would be many sick now the 
rains had started .  The Austrians were supposed to at -  
tack but he did not believe it .  We were supposed to at -  
tack too ,  but they had not brought up any new troops 
so he thought that was off too .  Food was scarce and 
he would be glad to get a full meal in Gorizia .  What 
kind of supper had I had ?  I told him and he said that 

192 



A FAREWELL TO ARMS 193 

would be wonderful .  He was especially impressed by 
the dolce .  I did not describe it in detail ,  only said it 
was a dolce ,  and I think he believed it was something 
more elaborate than bread pudding .  

Did I know where he was going to go ?  I said I 
didnt but that some of the other cars were at Capo -  
retto .  He hoped he would go up that way .  It was a 
nice little place and he liked the high mountain hauling 
up beyond .  He was a nice boy and every one seemed 
to like him .  He said where it really had been hell was 
at San Gabricle and the attack beyond Lorn that had 
gone bad .  He said the Austrians had a great amount 
of artillery in the woods along Ternova ridge beyond 
and above us ,  and shelled the roads badly at night .  
There was a battery of naval guns that had gotten on 
his nerves .  I would recognize them because of their 
flat trajectory .  You heard the report and then the 
shriek commenced almost instantly .  They usually fired 
two guns at once ,  one right after the other ,  and the 
fragments from the burst were enormous .  He showed 
me one ,  a smoothly jagged piece of metal over a foot 
long .  It looked like babbiting metal .  

 " I dont suppose they are so effective ,   ,  ,  Gino said .  
 " But they scare me .  They all sound as though they 
came directly for you .  There is the boom ,  then in -  
stantly the shriek and burst .  Whats the use of not be -  
ing wounded if they scare you to death  ?  "  

He said there were Croats in the lines opposite us 
now and some Magyars .  Our troops were still in the 
attacking positions .  There was no wire to speak of and 
no place to fall back to if there should be an Austrian 
attack .  There were fine positions for defense along the 
low mountains that came up out of the plateau but 
nothing had been done about organizing them for de -  



[94 



A FAREWELL TO ARMS 



fense .  What did I think about the Bainsizza anyway ?  

I had expected it to be flatter ,  more like a plateau .  
I had not realized it was so broken up .  

 " Alto piano ,  "  Gino said ,   " but no piano .  "  

We went back to the cellar of the house where he 
lived .  I said I thought a ridge that flattened out on 
top and had a little depth would be easier and more 
practical to hold than a succession of small mountains .  
It was no harder to attack up a mountain than on the 
level ,  I argued .   " That depends on the mountains ,  "  he 
said .   " Look at San Gabriele .  "  

 " Yes ,  "  I said ,   " but where they had trouble was at 
the top where it was flat .  They got up to the top easy 
enough .  "  

 " Not so easy ,  "  he said .  

 " Yes ,  "  I said ,   " but that was a special case because 
it was a fortress rather than a mountain ,  anyway .  The 
Austrians had been fortifying it for years .  "  I meant 
tactically speaking in a war where there was some 
movement a succession of mountains were nothing to 
hold as a line because it was too easy to turn them .  
You should have possible mobility and a mountain is 
not very mobile .  Also ,  people always over - shoot down 
hill .  If the flank were turned ,  the best men would be 
left on the highest mountains .  I did not believe in a 
war in mountains .  I had thought about it a lot ,  I said .  
You pinched off one mountain and they pinched off an -  
other but when something really started every one had 
to get down off the mountains .  

What were you going to do if you had a mountain 
frontier ?  he asked .  

I had not worked that out yet ,  I said ,  and we both 
laughed .   " But ,  "  I said ,   " in the old days the Austrians 
were always whipped in the quadrilateral around Ve -  



A FAREWELL TO ARMS 195 

rona .  They let them come down onto the plain and 
whipped them there .  "  

 " Yes ,  "  said Gino .   " But those were Frenchmen and 
you can work out military problems clearly when you 
are fighting in somebody elses country .  "  

 " Yes ,  "  I agreed ,   " when it is your own country you 
cannot use it so scientifically .  "  

 " The Russians did ,  to trap Napoleon .  "  

 " Yes ,  but they had plenty of country .  If you tried 
to retreat to trap Napoleon in Italy you would find 
yourself in Brindisi .  "  

 " A terrible place ,  "  said Gino .   " Have you ever been 
there ?  "  

 " Not to stay .  "  

 " I am a patriot ,  "  Gino said .   " But I cannot love 
Brindisi or Taranto .  "  

 " Do you love the Bainsizza ?  "  I asked .  

 " The soil is sacred ,  "  he said .   " But I wish it grew 
more potatoes .  You know when we came here we 
found fields of potatoes the Austrians had planted .  "  

 " Has the food really been short ?  "  

 " I myself have never had enough to eat but I am a 
big eater and I have not starved .  The mess is average .  
The regiments in the line get pretty good food but those 
in support dont get so much .  Something is wrong 
somewhere .  There should be plenty of food .  "  

 " The dogfish are selling it somewhere else .  "  

 " Yes ,  they give the battalions in the front line as 
much as they can but the ones in back are very short .  
They have eaten all the Austrians potatoes and chest -  
nuts from the woods .  They ought to feed them better .  
We are big eaters .  I am sure there is plenty of food .  
It is very bad for the soldiers to be short of food .  



196 A FAREWELL TO ARMS 

Have you ever noticed the difference it makes in the 
way you think  ?  "  

 " Yes ,  "  I said .   " It cant win a war but it can lose 
one .  

 " We wont talk about losing .  There is enough talk 
about losing .  What has been done this summer cannot 
have been done in vain .  "  

I did not say anything .  I was always embarrassed 
by the words sacred ,  glorious ,  and sacrifice and the ex -  
pression in vain .  We had heard them ,  sometimes stand -  
ing in the rain almost out of earshot ,  so that only the 
shouted words came through ,  and had read them ,  on 
proclamations that were slapped up by billposters over 
other proclamations ,  now for a long time ,  and I had 
seen nothing sacred ,  and the things that were glorious 
had no glory and the sacrifices were like the stock -  
yards at Chicago if nothing was done with the meat 
except to bury it .  There were many words that you 
could not stand to hear and finally only the names of 
places had dignity .  Certain numbers were the same 
way and certain dates and these with the names of the 
places were all you could say and have them mean any -  
thing .  Abstract words such as glory ,  honor ,  courage ,  
or hallow were obscene beside the concrete names of 
villages ,  the numbers of roads ,  the names of rivers ,  the 
numbers of regiments and the dates .  Gino was a pa -  
triot ,  so he said things that separated us sometimes ,  
but he was also a fine boy and I understood his being a 
patriot .  He was born one .  He left with Peduzzi in the 
car to go back to Gorizia .  

It stormed all that day .  The wind drove down the 
rain and everywhere there was standing water and 
mud .  The plaster of the broken houses was gray and 
wet .  Late in the afternoon the rain stopped and from 



A FAREWELL TO ARMS 197 

out number two post I saw the bare wet autumn coun -  
try with clouds over the tops of the hills and the straw 
screening over the roads wet and dripping .  The sun 
came out once before it went down and shone on the 
bare woods beyond the ridge .  There were many Aus -  
trian guns in the woods on that ridge but only a few 
fired .  I watched the sudden round puffs of shrapnel 
smoke in the sky above a broken farmhouse near where 
the line was  ;  soft puffs with a yellow white flash in the 
centre .  You saw the flash ,  then heard the crack ,  then 
saw the smoke ball distort and thin in the wind .  There 
were many iron shrapnel balls in the rubble of the 
houses and on the road beside the broken house where 
the post was ,  but they did not shell near the post that 
afternoon .  We loaded two cars and drove down the 
road that was screened with wet mats and the last of 
the sun came through in the breaks between the strips 
of mattings .  Before we were out on the clear road be -  
hind the hill the sun was down .  We went on down the 
clear road and as it turned a corner into the open and 
went into the square arched tunnel of matting the rain 
started again .  

The wind rose in the night and at three oclock in the 
morning with the rain coming in sheets there was a 
bombardment and the Croatians came over across the 
mountain meadows and through patches of woods and 
into the front line .  They fought in the dark in the rain 
and a counter - attack of scared men from the second 
line drove them back .  There was much shelling and 
many rockets in the rain and machine - gun and rifle 
fire all along the line .  They did not come again and it 
was quieter and between the gusts of wind and rain 
we could hear the sound of a great bombardment far 
to the north .  



198 A FAREWELL TO ARMS 

The wounded were coming into the post ,  some were 
carried on stretchers ,  some walking and some were 
brought on the backs of men that came across the field .  
They were wet to the skin and all were scared .  We 
filled two cars with stretcher cases as they came up from 
the cellar of the post and as I shut the door of the sec -  
ond car and fastened it I felt the rain on my face turn 
to snow .  The flakes were coming heavy and fast in the 
rain .  

When daylight came the storm was still blowing but 
the snow had stopped .  It had melted as it fell on the 
wet ground and now it was raining again .  There was 
another attack just after daylight but it was unsuccess -  
ful .  We expected an attack all day but it did not come 
until the sun was going down .  The bombardment 
started to the south below the long wooded ridge where 
the Austrian guns were concentrated .  We expected a 
bombardment but it did not come .  It was getting dark .  
Guns were firing from the field behind the village and 
the shells ,  going away ,  had a comfortable sound .  

We heard that the attack to the south had been un -  
successful .  They did not attack that night but we heard 
that they had broken through to the north .  In the night 
word came that we were to prepare to retreat .  The cap -  
tain at the post told me this .  He had it from the Bri -  
gade .  A little while later he came from the telephone 
and said it was a lie .  The Brigade had received orders 
that the line of the Bainsizza should be held no matter 
what happened .  I asked about the break through and 
he said that he had heard at the Brigade that the Aus -  
trians had broken through the twenty - seventh army 
corps up toward Caporetto .  There had been a great 
battle in the north all day .  

 " If those bastards let them through we . are cooked/ 
he said .  



A FAREWELL TO ARMS 199 

 " Its Germans that are attacking ,  "  one of the medi -  
cal officers said .  The word Germans was something 
to be frightened of .  We did not want to have any -  
thing to do with the Germans .  

 " There are fifteen divisions of Germans ,  "  the medi -  
cal officer said .   " They have broken through and we will 
be cut off .  "  

 " At the Brigade ,  they say this line is to be held .  They 
say they have not broken through badly and that we 
will hold a line across the mountains from Monte Mag -  
giore .  "  

 " Where do they hear this  ?  "  

 " From the Division .  "  

 " The word that we were to retreat came from the 
Division .  "  

 " We work under the Army Corps ,  "  I said .   " But 
here I work under you .  Naturally when you tell me to 
go I will go .  But get the orders straight .  "  

 " The orders are that we stay here .  You clear the 
wounded from here to the clearing station .  "  

 " Sometimes we clear from the clearing station to 
the field hospitals too ,  "  I said .   " Tell me ,  I have never 
seen a retreat  if there is a retreat how are all the 
wounded evacuated ?  "  

 " They are not .  They take as many as they can and 
leave the rest .  "  

 " What will I take in the cars ?  "  

 " Hospital equipment .  "  

 " All right ,  "  I said .  

The next night the retreat started .  We heard that 
Germans and Austrians had broken through in the 
north and were coming down the mountain valleys to -  
ward Cividale and Udine .  The retreat was orderly ,  
wet and sullen .  In the night ,  going slowly along the 
crowded roads we passed troops marching under the 



200 A FAREWELL TO ARMS 

rain ,  guns ,  horses pulling wagons ,  mules ,  motor trucks ,  
all moving away from the front .  There was no more 
disorder than in an advance .  

That night we helped empty the field hospitals that 
had been set up in the least ruined villages of the pla -  
teau ,  taking the wounded down to Plava on the river -  
bed: and the next day hauled all day in the rain to 
evacuate the hospitals and clearing station at Plava .  
It rained steadily and the army of the Bainsizza moved 
down off the plateau in the October rain and across the 
river where the great victories had commenced in the 
spring of that year .  We came into Gorizia in the mid -  
dle of the next day .  The rain had stopped and the town 
was nearly empty .  As we came up the street they were 
loading the girls from the soldiers whorehouse into a 
truck .  There were seven girls and they had on their 
hats and coats and carried small suitcases .  Two of 
them were crying .  Of the others one smiled at us and 
put out her tongue and fluttered it up and down .  She 
had thick full lips and black eyes .  

I stopped the car and went over and spoke to the ma -  
tron .  The girls from the officers house had left early 
that morning ,  she said .  Where were they going ?  To 
Conegliano ,  she said .  The truck started .  The girl with 
thick lips put out her tongue again at us .  The matron 
waved .  The two girls kept on crying .  The others 
looked interestedly out at the town .  I got back in the 
car .  

 " We ought to go with them ,  "  Bonello said .   " That 
would be a good trip .  "  

 " Well have a good trip ,  "  I said .  

 " Well have a hell of a trip .  "  

 " Thats what I mean ,  "  I said .  We came up the drive 
to the villa .  



A FAREWELL TO ARMS 201 

 " Id like to be there when some of those tough ba -  
bies climb in and try and hop them .  "  

 " You think they will ?  "  

 " Sure .  Everybody in the Second Army knows that 
matron .  "  

We were outside the villa .  

 " They call her the Mother Superior ,  "  Bonello said .  
 " The girls are new but everybody knows her .  They 
must have brought them up just before the retreat .  "  

 " Theyll have a time .  "  

 " Ill say theyll have a time .  Id like to have a crack 
at them for nothing .  They charge too much at that 
house anyway .  The government gyps us .  "  

 " Take the car out and have the mechanics go over 
it ,  "  I said .   " Change the oil and check the differential .  
Fill it up and then get some sleep .  "  

 " Yes ,  Signor Tenente .  "  

The villa was empty .  Rinaldi was gone with the 
hospital .  The major was gone taking hospital person -  
nel in the staff car .  There was a note on the window 
for me to fill the cars with the material piled in the hall 
and to proceed to Pordenone .  The mechanics were 
gone already .  I went out back to the garage .  The 
other two cars came in while I was there and their driv -  
ers got down .  It was starting to rain again .  

 " Im so sleepy I went to sleep three times com -  
ing here from Plava ,  "  Piani said .   " What are we going 
to do ,  Tenente ?  "  

 " Well change the oil ,  grease them ,  fill them up ,  then 
take them around in front and load up the junk theyve 
left "  

 " Then do we start  ?  "  

 " No ,  well sleep for three hours .  "  



202 A FAREWELL TO ARMS 

 " Christ Im glad to sleep ,  "  Bonello said .   " I couldnt 
keep awake driving/ 

 " Hows your car ,  Aymo ?  "  I asked .  

 " Its all right .  "  

 " Get me a monkey suit and Ill help you with the 
oil .  "  

 " Dont you do that ,  Tenente ,  "  Aymo said .   " Its 
nothing to do .  You go and pack your things .  "  

 " My things are all packed ,  "  I said .   " Ill go and 
carry out the stuff that they left for us .  Bring the 
cars around as soon as theyre ready .  "  

They brought the cars around to the front of the 
villa and we loaded them with the hospital equipment 
which was piled in the hallway .  When it was all in ,  
the three cars stood in line down the driveway under the 
trees in the rain .  We went inside .  

 " Make a fire in the kitchen and dry your things ,  "  I 
said .  

 " I dont care about dry clothes ,  "  Piani said .   " I want 
to sleep .  "  

 " Im going to sleep on the majors bed ,  "  Bonello 
said .   " Im going to sleep where the old man corks off .  "  

 " I dont care where I sleep ,  "  Piani said .  

 " There are two beds in here .  "  I opened the door .  

 " I never knew what was in that room ,  "  Bonello said .  

 " That was old fish - faces room ,  "  Piani said .  

 " You two sleep in there ,  "  I said .   " Ill wake you .  "  

 " The Austrians will wake us if you sleep too long ,  
Tenente ,  "  Bonello said .  

 " I wont oversleep ,  "  I said .   " Wheres Aymo ?  "  

 " He went out in the kitchen .  "  

 " Get to sleep ,  "  I said .  

 " Ill sleep ,  "  Piani said .   " Ive been asleep sitting up 



A FAREWELL TO ARMS 203 

all day .  The whole top of my head kept coming down 
over my eyes .  "  

 " Take your boots off ,  "  Bonello said .   " Thats old 
fish - faces bed .  "  

 " Fish - face is nothing to me .  "  Piani lay on the bed ,  
his muddy boots straight out ,  his head on his arm .  I 
went out to the kitchen .  Aymo had a fire in the stove 
and a kettle of water on .  

 " I thought Id start some pasta asciutta "  he said .  
 " Well be hungry when we wake up .  "  

 " Arent you sleepy ,  Bartolomeo ?  "  

 " Not so sleepy .  When the water boils Ill leave it .  
The fire will go down .  "  

 " Youd better get some sleep ,  "  I said .   " We can eat 
cheese and monkey meat .  "  

 " This is better ,  "  he said .   " Something hot will be 
good for those two anarchists .  You go to sleep ,  Ten -  
ente .  "  

 " Theres a bed in the majors room .  "  

 " You sleep there .  "  

 " No ,  Im going up to my old room .  Do you want 
a drink ,  Bartolomeo ?  "  

 " When we go ,  Tenente .  Now it wouldnt do me any 
good .  "  

 " If you wake in three hours and I havent called you ,  
wake me ,  will you ?  "  

 " I havent any watch ,  Tenente .  "  

 " Theres a clock on the wall in the majors room .  "  

 " All right .  "  

I went out then through the dining - room and the 
hall and up the marble stairs to the room where I had 
lived with Rinaldi .  It was raining outside .  I went 
to the window and looked out .  It was getting dark and 
I saw the three cars standing in line under the trees .  



2o 4 A FAREWELL TO ARMS 

The trees were dripping in the rain .  It was cold and 
the drops hung to the branches .  I went back to Ri -  
naldis bed and lay down and let sleep take me .  

We ate in the kitchen before we started .  Aymo had 
a basin of spaghetti with onions and tinned meat 
chopped up in it .  We sat around the table and drank 
two bottles of the wine that had been left in the cellar 
of the villa .  It was dark outside and still raining .  
Piani sat at the table very sleepy .  

 " I like a retreat better than an advance/ Bonello 
said .   " On a retreat we drink barbera .  "  

 " We drink it now .  To - morrow maybe we drink rain -  
water/ Aymo said .  

 " To - morrow well be in Udine .  Well drink cham -  
pagne .  Thats where the slackers live .  Wake up ,  Piani  !  
Well drink champagne to - morrow in Udine  !  "  

 " Im awake ,  "  Piani said .  He filled his plate with the 
spaghetti and meat .   " Couldnt you find tomato sauce ,  
Barto ?  "  

 " There wasnt any/ Aymo said .  

 " Well drink champagne in Udine ,  "  Bonello said .  
He filled his glass with the clear red barbera .  

 " We may drink before Udine ,  "  Piani said .  

 " Have you eaten enough ,  Tenente ?  "  Aymo asked .  

 " Ive got plenty .  Give me the bottle ,  Bartolomeo .  "  

 " I have a bottle apiece to take in the cars ,  "  Aymo 
said .  

 " Did you sleep at all ?  "  

 " I dont need much sleep .  I slept a little .  "  

 " To - morrow well sleep in the kings bed ,  "  Bonello 
said .  He was feeling very good .  

 " To - morrow maybe well sleep in  ,  "  Piani said .  

 " Ill sleep with the queen ,  "  Bonello said .  He looked 
to see how I took the joke .  



A FAREWELL TO ARMS 205 

 " Youll sleep with  ,  "  Piani said sleepily .  

 " Thats treason ,  Tenente ,  "  Bonello said .   " Isnt that 
treason ?  "  

 " Shut up ,  "  I said .   " You get too funny with a little 
wine .  "  Outside it was raining hard .  I looked at my 
watch .  It was half  - past nine .  

 " Its time to roll ,  "  I said and stood up .  

 " Who are you going to ride with ,  Tenente ?  "  Bo -  
nello asked .  

 " With Aymo .  Then you come .  Then Piani .  Well 
start out on the road for Cormons .  "  

 " Im afraid Ill go to sleep ,  "  Piani said .  

 " All right .  Ill ride with you .  Then Bonello .  Then 
Aymo .  "  

 " Thats the best way ,  "  Piani said .   " Because Im so 
sleepy .  "  

 " Ill drive and you sleep awhile .  "  

 " No .  I can drive just so long as I know somebody 
will wake me up if I go to sleep .  "  

 " Ill wake you up .  Put out the lights ,  Barto .  "  

 " You might as well leave them ,  "  Bonello said .  
 "   " Weve got no more use for this place .  "  

 " I have a small locker trunk in my room ,  "  I said .  
 " Will you help take it down ,  Piani  ?  "  

 " Well take it ,  "  Piani said .   " Come on ,  Aldo .  "  He 
went off into the hall with Bonello .  I heard them go -  
ing upstairs .  

 " This was a fine place ,  "  Bartolomeo Aymo said .  He 
put two bottles of wine and half a cheese into his haver -  
sack .   " There wont be a place like this again .  Where 
will they retreat to ,  Tenente ?  "  

 " Beyond the Tagliamento ,  they say .  The hospital and 
the sector are to be at Pordenone .  "  



206 A FAREWELL TO ARMS 

 " This is a better town than Pordenone .  "  
 " I dont know Pordenone ,  "  I said .   " Ive just been 
through there .  "  

 " Its not much of a place ,  "  Aymo said .  



CHAPTER XXVIII 

As we moved out through the town it was empty in 
the rain and the dark except for columns of troops and 
guns that were going through the main street .  There 
were many trucks too and some carts going through on 
other streets and converging on the main road .  When 
we were out past the tanneries onto the main road the 
troops ,  the motor trucks ,  the horse - drawn carts and the 
guns were in one wide slow - moving column .  We moved 
slowly but steadily in the rain ,  the radiator cap of our 
car almost against the tailboard of a truck that was 
loaded high ,  the load covered with wet canvas .  Then 
the truck stopped .  The whole column was stopped .  It 
started again and we went a little farther ,  then stopped .  
I got out and walked ahead ,  going between the trucks 
and carts and under the wet necks of the horses .  The 
block was farther ahead .  I left the road ,  crossed the 
ditch on a footboard and walked along the field beyond 
the ditch .  I could see the stalled column between the 
trees in the rain as I went forward across from it in 
the field .  I went about a mile .  The column did not 
move ,  although ,  on the other side beyond the stalled 
vehicles I could see the troops moving .  I went back 
to the cars .  This block might extend as far as Udine .  
Piani was asleep over the wheel .  I climbed up beside 
him and went to sleep too .  Several hours later I heard 
the truck ahead of us grinding into gear .  I woke Piani 
and we started ,  moving a few yards ,  then stopping ,  
then going on again .  It was still raining .  

The column stalled again in the night and did not 
207 



208 A FAREWELL TO ARMS 

start .  I got down and went back to see Aymo and 
Bonello .  Bonello had two sergeants of engineers on 
the seat of his car with him .  They stiffened when I 
came up .  

 " They were left to do something to a bridge ,  "  Bo -  
nello said .   " They cant find their unit so I gave them a 
ride .  "  

 " With the Sir Lieutenants permission .  "  

 " With permission ,  "  I said .  

 " The lieutenant is an American ,  "  Bonello said .  
 " Hell give anybody a ride .  "  

One of the sergeants smiled .  The other asked Bo -  
nello if I was an Italian from North or South America .  

 " Hes not an Italian .  Hes North American Eng -  
lish .  "  

The sergeants were polite but did not believe it .  I 
left them and went back to Aymo .  He had two girls 
on the seat with him and was sitting back in the corner 
and smoking .  

 " Barto ,  Barto ,  "  I said .  He laughed .  

 " Talk to them ,  Tenente ,  "  he said .   " I cant understand 
them .  Hey !  "  he put his hand on the girls thigh and 
squeezed it in a friendly way .  The girl drew her shawl 
tight around her and pushed his hand away .   " Hey !  "  
he said .   " Tell the Tenente your name and what youre 
doing here .  "  

The girl looked at me fiercely .  The other girl kept 
her eyes down .  The girl who looked at me said some -  
thing in a dialect I could not understand a word of .  
She was plump and dark and looked about sixteen .  

 " Sorella  ?  "  I asked and pointed at the other girl .  

She nodded her head and smiled .  

 " All right ,  "  I said and patted her knee .  I felt her 
stiffen away when I touched her .  The sister never 



A FAREWELL TO ARMS 209 

looked up .  She looked perhaps a year younger .  Aymo 
put his hand on the elder girls thigh and she pushed it 
away .  He laughed at her .  

 " Good man/ he pointed at himself .   " Good man ,  "  
he pointed at me .   " Dont you worry .  "  The girl looked 
at him fiercely .  The pair of them were like two wild 
birds .  

 " What does she ride with me for if she doesnt like 
me ?  "  Aymo asked .   " They got right up in the car the 
minute I motioned to them .  "  He turned to the girl .  

 " Dont worry ,  "  he said .   " No danger of  ,  "  using 

the vulgar word .   " No place for  .  "  I could see she 

understood the word and that was all .  Her eyes looked 
at him very scared .  She pulled the shawl tight .   " Car 

all full ,  "  Aymo said .   " No danger of  .  No place 

f or #  "  Every time he said the word the girl stif -  
fened a little .  Then sitting stiffly and looking at him 
she began to cry .  I saw her lips working and then 
tears came down her plump cheeks .  Her sister ,  not 
looking up ,  took her hand and they sat there together .  
The older one ,  who had been so fierce ,  began to sob .  

 " I guess I scared her ,  "  Aymo said .   " I didnt mean 
to scare her .  "  

Bartolomeo brought out his knapsack and cut off 
two pieces of cheese .   " Here ,  "  he said .   " Stop crying .  "  

The older girl shook her head and still cried ,  but the 
younger girl took the cheese and commenced to eat .  
After a while the younger girl gave her sister the sec -  
ond piece of cheese and they both ate .  The older sister 
still sobbed a little .  
  " Shell be all right after a while ,  "  Aymo said .  

An idea came to him .   " Virgin ?  "  he asked the girl 
next to him .  She nodded her head vigorously .   " Vir -  
gin too  ?  "  he pointed to the sister .  Both the girls nod -  



2io A FAREWELL TO ARMS 

ded their heads and the elder said something in dialect .  

 " Thats all right ,  "  Bartolomeo said .   " Thats all 
right .  "  

Both the girls seemed cheered .  

I left them sitting together with Aymo sitting back 
in the corner and went back to Pianis car .  The column 
of vehicles did not move but the troops kept passing 
alongside .  It w T as still raining hard and I thought some 
of the stops in the movement of the column might be 
from cars with wet wiring .  More likely they were 
from horses or men going to sleep .  Still ,  traffic could 
tie up in cities when every one was awake .  It was the 
combination of horse and motor vehicles .  They did not 
help each other any .  The peasants carts did not help 
much either .  Those were a couple of fine girls with 
Barto .  A retreat was no place for two virgins .  Real 
virgins .  Probably very religious .  If there were no 
war we would probably all be in bed .  In bed I lay me 
down my head .  Bed and board .  Stiff as a board in 
bed .  Catherine was in bed now between two sheets ,  
over her and under her .  Which side did she sleep on ?  
Maybe she wasnt asleep .  Maybe she was lying think -  
ing about me .  Blow ,  blow ,  ye western wind .  Well ,  it 
blew and it wasnt the small rain but the big rain down 
that rained .  It rained all night .  You knew it rained 
down that rained .  Look at it .  Christ ,  that my love were 
in my arms and I in my bed again .  That my love Cath -  
erine .  That my sweet love Catherine down might rain .  
Blow her again to me .  Well ,  we were in it .  Every one 
was caught in it and the small rain would not quiet it .  
 " Good - night ,  Catherine ,   ,  ,  I said out loud .   " I hope you 
sleep well .  If its too uncomfortable ,  darling ,  lie on the 
other side ,  "  I said .   " Ill get you some cold water .  In a 
little while it will be morning and then it wont be so 



A FAREWELL TO ARMS 211 

bad .  Im sorry he makes you so uncomfortable .  Try 
and go to sleep ,  sweet .  "  

I was asleep all the time ,  she said .  Youve been talk -  
ing in your sleep .  Are you all right  ?  

Are you really there  ?  

Of course Im here .  I wouldnt go way .  This 
doesnt make any difference between us .  

Youre so lovely and sweet .  You wouldnt go away 
in the night ,  would you  ?  

Of course I wouldnt go away .  Im always here .  I 
come whenever you want me .  

 "  9  "  Piani said .   " Theyve started again .  "  

 " I was dopey ,  "  I said .  I looked at my watch .  It 
was three oclock in the morning .  I reached back be -  
hind the seat for a bottle of the barbera .  

 " You talked out loud ,  "  Piani said .  

 " I was having a dream in English ,  "  I said .  

The rain was slacking and we were moving along .  
Before daylight we were stalled again and when it was 
light we were at a little rise in the ground and I saw the 
road of the retreat stretched out far ahead ,  everything 
stationary except for the infantry filtering through .  We 
started to move again but seeing the rate of progress in 
the daylight ,  I knew we were going to have to get off 
that main road some way and go across country if we 
ever hoped to reach Udine .  

In the night many peasants had joined the column 
from the roads of the country and in the column there 
were carts loaded with household goods ;  there were 
mirrors projecting up between mattresses ,  and chickens 
and ducks tied to carts .  There was a sewing - machine 
on the cart ahead of us in the rain .  They had saved 
the most valuable things .  On some carts the women sat 



> 



212 A FAREWELL TO ARMS 

huddled from the rain and others walked beside the 
carts keeping as close to them as they could .  There were 
dogs now in the column ,  keeping under the wagons as 
they moved along .  The road was muddy ,  the ditches at 
the side were high with water and beyond the trees that 
lined the road the fields looked too wet and too soggy 
to try to cross .  I got down from the car and worked 
up the road a way ,  looking for a place where I could see 
ahead to find a side - road we could take across country .  
I knew there were many side - roads but did not want one 
that would lead to nothing .  I could not remember them 
because we had always passed them bowling along in 
the car on the main road and they all looked much 
alike .  Now I knew we must find one if we hoped to 
get through .  No one knew where the Austrians were 
nor how things were going but I was certain that if 
the rain should stop and planes come over and get to 
work on that column that it would be all over .  All that 
was needed was for a few men to leave their trucks or 
a few horses be killed to tie up completely the move -  
ment on the road .  

The rain was not falling so heavily now and I 
thought it might clear .  I went ahead along the edge of 
the road and when there was a small road that led off 
to the north between two fields with a hedge of trees 
on both sides ,  I thought that we had better take it and 
hurried back to the cars .  I told Piani to turn off and 
went back to tell Bonello and Aymo .  

 " If it leads nowhere we can turn around and cut back 
in ,  "  I said .  

 " What about these ?  "  Bonello asked .  His two ser -  
geants were beside him on the seat .  They were un -  
shaven but still military looking in the early morning .  

 " Theyll be good to push ,  "  I said .  I went back to 



A FAREWELL TO ARMS 213 

Aymo and told him we were going to try it across 
country .  

 " What about my virgin family  ?  "  Aymo asked .  The 
two girls were asleep .  

They wont be very useful ,   ,  ,  I said .   " You ought to 
have some one that could push .  "  

 " They could go back in the car ,  "  Aymo said .  
 " Theres room in the car .  "  

 " All right if you want them ,  "  I said .   " Pick up some -  
body with a wide back to push .  "  

 " Bersaglieri ,  "  Aymo smiled .   " They have the widest 
backs .  They measure them .  How do you feel ,  Ten -  
ente ?  "  

 " Fine .  How are you ?  "  

 " Fine .  But very hungry .  "  

 " There ought to be something up that road and we 
will stop and eat .  "  

 " Hows your leg ,  Tenente ?  "  

 " Fine ,  "  I said .  Standing on the step and looking up 
ahead I could see Pianis car pulling out onto the little 
side - road and starting up it ,  his car showing through 
the hedge of bare branches .  Bonello turned off and 
followed him and then Piani worked his way out and 
we followed the two ambulances ahead along the nar -  
row road between hedges .  It led to a farmhouse .  We 
found Piani and Bonello stopped in the farmyard .  The 
house was low and long with a trellis with a grape - vine 
over the door .  There was a well in the yard and Piani 
was getting up water to fill his radiator .  So much go -  
ing in low gear had boiled it out .  The farmhouse was 
deserted .  I looked back down the road ,  the farmhouse 
was on a slight elevation above the plain ,  and we could 
see over the country ,  and saw the road ,  the hedges ,  the 
fields and the line of trees along the main road where 



2i 4 A FAREWELL TO ARMS 

the retreat was passing .  The two sergeants were look -  
ing through the house .  The girls were awake and look -  
ing at the courtyard ,  the well and the two big ambu -  
lances in front of the farmhouse ,  with three drivers at 
the well .  One of the sergeants came out with a clock 
in his hand .  

 " Put it back ,  "  I said .  He looked at me ,  went in the 
house and came back without the clock .  

 " Wheres your partner  ?  "  I asked .  

 " Hes gone to the latrine/ He got up on the seat of 
the ambulance .  He was afraid we would leave him .  

 " What about breakfast ,  Tenente ?  "  Bonello asked .  
 " We could eat something .  It wouldnt take very long .  "  

 " Do you think this road going down on the other 
side will lead to anything ?  "  

 " Sure .  "  

 " All right .  Lets eat .  "  Piani and Bonello went in 
the house .  

 " Come on ,  "  Aymo said to the girls .  He held his 
hand to help them down .  The older sister shook her 
he^d .  They were not going into any deserted house .  
They looked after us .  

 " They are difficult ,  "  Aymo said .  We went into the 
farmhouse together .  It was large and dark ,  an aban -  
doned feeling .  Bonello and Piani were in the kitchen .  

 " Theres not much to eat ,  "  Piani said .   " Theyve 
cleaned it out .  "  

Bonello sliced a big white cheese on the heavy kitchen 
table .  

 " Where was the cheese ?  "  

 " In the cellar .  Piani found wine too and apples .  "  

 " Thats a good breakfast .  "  

Piani was taking the wooden cork out of a big wick -  



A FAREWELL TO ARMS 215 

er - covered wine jug .  He tipped it and poured a copper 
pan full .  

 " It smells all right ,  "  he said .   " Find some beakers ,  
Barto .  "  

The two sergeants came in .  

 " Have some cheese ,  sergeants/ Bonello said .  

 " We should go ,  "  one of the sergeants said ,  eating his 
cheese and drinking a cup of wine .  

 " Well go .  Dont worry ,  "  Bonello said .  

 " An army travels on its stomach ,  "  I said .  

 " What ?  "  asked the sergeant .  

 " Its better to eat .  "  

 " Yes .  But time is precious .  "  

 " I believe the bastards have eaten already ,  "  Piani 
said .  The sergeants looked at him .  They hated the lot 
of us .  

 " You know the road ?  "  one of them asked me .  

 " No ,  "  I said .  They looked at each other .  

 " We would do best to start ,  "  the first one said .  

 " We are starting ,  "  I said .  I drank another cup of 
the red wine .  It tasted very good after the cheese and 
apple .  

 " Bring the cheese ,  "  I said and went out .  Bonello 
came out carrying the great jug of wine .  

 " Thats too big ,  "  I said .  He looked at it regretfully .  

 " I guess it is ,  "  he said .   " Give me the canteens to 
fill .  "  He filled the canteens and some of the wine ran 
out on the stone paving of the courtyard .  Then he 
picked up the wine jug and put it just inside the door .  

 " The Austrians can find it without breaking the door 
down ,  "  he said .  

 " Well roll ,  "  I said .   " Piani and I will go ahead .  "  
The two engineers were already on the seat beside Bo -  
nello .  The girls were eating cheese and apples .  Aymo 



216 A FAREWELL TO ARMS 

was smoking .  We started off down the narrow road .  
I looked back at the two cars coming and the farm -  
house .  It was a fine ,  low ,  solid stone house and the 
ironwork of the well was very good .  Ahead of us the 
road was narrow and muddy and there was a high 
hedge on either side .  Behind ,  the cars were following 
closely .  



CHAPTER XXIX 

At noon we were stuck in a muddy road about ,  as 
nearly as we could figure ,  ten kilometres from Udine .  
The rain had stopped during the forenoon and three 
times we had heard planes coming ,  seen them pass over -  
head ,  watched them go far to the left and heard them 
bombing on the main highroad .  We had worked through 
a network of secondary roads and had taken many roads 
that were blind ,  but had always ,  by backing up and find -  
ing another road ,  gotten closer to Udine .  Now ,  Aymos 
car ,  in backing so that we might get out of a blind road ,  
had gotten into the soft earth at the side and the wheels ,  
spinning ,  had dug deeper and deeper until the car rested 
on its differential The thing to do now was to dig out 
in front of the wheels ,  put in brush so that the chains 
could grip ,  and then push until the car was on the road .  
We were all down on the road around the car .  The 
two sergeants looked at the car and examined the 
wheels .  Then they started off down the road without a 
word .  I went after them .  

 " Come on/ I said .   " Cut some brush .  "  

 " We have to go ,  "  one said .  

 " Get busy ,  "  I said ,   " and cut brush .  "  

 " We have to go ,  "  one said .  The other said nothing .  
They were in a hurry to start .  They would not look at 
me .  

 " I order you to come back to the car and cut brush ,  "  
I said .  The one sergeant turned .   " We have to go on .  
In a little while you will be cut off .  You cant order 
us .  Youre not our officer .  "  

 " I order you to cut brush ,  "  I said .  They turned and 
started down the road .  

217 



ai8 A FAREWELL TO ARMS 

 " Halt ,  "  I said .  They kept on down the muddy road ,  
the hedge on either side .   " I order you to halt ,  "  I called .  
They went a little faster .  I opened up my holster ,  took 
the pistol ,  aimed at the one who had talked the most ,  
and fired .  I missed and they both started to run .  I 
shot three times and dropped one .  The other went 
through the hedge and was out of sight .  I fired at him 
through the hedge as he ran across the field .  The pistol 
clicked empty and I put in another clip .  I saw it was 
too far to shoot at the second sergeant .  He was far 
across the field ,  running ,  his head held low .  I com -  
menced to reload the empty clip .  Bonello came up .  

 " Let me go finish him ,  "  he said .  I handed him the 
pistol and he walked down to where the sergeant of 
engineers lay face down across the road .  Bonello leaned 
over ,  put the pistol against the mans head and pulled 
the trigger .  The pistol did not fire .  

 " You have to cock it ,  "  I said .  He cocked it and 
fired twice .  He took hold of the sergeants legs and 
pulled him to the side of the road so he lay beside the 
hedge .  He came back and handed me the pistol .  

 " The son of a bitch ,  "  he said .  He looked toward 
the sergeant .   " You see me shoot him ,  Tenente ?  "  

 " Weve got to get the brush quickly ,  "  I said .   " Did 
I hit the other one at all ?  "  

 " I dont think so ,  "  Aymo said .   " He was too far 
away to hit with a pistol .  "  

 " The dirty scum ,  "  Piani said .  We were all cutting 
twigs and branches .  Everything had been taken out 
of the car .  Bonello was digging out in front of the 
wheels .  When we were ready Aymo started the car 
and put it into gear .  The wheels spun round throwing 
brush and mud .  Bonello and I pushed until we could 
feel our joints crack .  The car would not move .  



A FAREWELL TO ARMS 219 

 " Rock her back and forth ,  Barto ,  "  I said .  

He drove the engine in reverse ,  then forward .  The 
wheels only dug in deeper .  Then the car was resting 
on the differential again ,  and the wheels spun freely in 
the holes they had dug .  I straightened up .  

 " Well try her with a rope ,  "  I said .  

 " I dont think its any use ,  Tenente .  You cant get 
a straight pull .   ,  ,  

 " We have to try it ,  "  I said .   " She wont come out 
any other way .  "  

Pianis and Bonellos cars could only move straight 
ahead down the narrow road .  We roped both cars to -  
gether and pulled .  The wheels only pulled sideways 
against the ruts .  

 " Its no good ,  "  I shouted .   " Stop it .  "  

Piani and Bonello got down from their cars and 
came back .  Aymo got down .  The girls were up the road 
about forty yards sitting on a stone wall .  

 " What do you say ,  Tenente ?  "  Bonello asked .  

 " Well dig out and try once more with the brush ,  "  
I said .  I looked down the road .  It was my fault I 
had led them up here .  The sun was almost out from 
behind the clouds and the body of the sergeant lay be -  
side the hedge .  

 " Well put his coat and cape under ,  "  I said .  Bonello 
went to get them .  I cut brush and Aymo and Piani 
dug out in front and between the wheels .  I cut the 
cape ,  then ripped it in two ,  and laid it under the wheel 
in the mud ,  then piled brush for the wheels to catch .  
We were ready to start and Aymo got up on the seat 
and started the car .  The wheels spun and we pushed 
and pushed .  But it wasnt any use .  

 " Its ed ,  "  I said .   " Is there anything you want 

in the ear ,  Barto  ?  "  



220 A FAREWELL TO ARMS 

Aymo climbed up with Bonello ,  carrying the cheese 
and two bottles of wine and his cape .  Bonello ,  sitting 
behind the wheel ,  was looking through the pockets of 
the sergeants coat .  

 " Better throw the coat away ,  "  I said .   " What about 
Bartos virgins  ?  "  

 " They can get in the back ,  "  Piani said .   " I dont 
think we are going far .  "  

I opened the back door of the ambulance .  

 " Come on ,  "  I said .   " Get in .  "  The two girls climbed 
in and sat in the corner .  They seemed to have taken no 
notice of the shooting .  I looked back up the road .  The 
sergeant lay in his dirty long - sleeved underwear .  I 
got up with Piani and we started .  We were going to 
try to cross the field .  When the road entered the field 
I got down and walked ahead .  If we could get across ,  
there was a road on the other side .  We could not get 
across .  It was too soft and muddy for the cars .  When 
they were finally and completely stalled ,  the wheels 
dug in to the hubs ,  we left them in the field and started 
on foot for Udine .  

When we came to the road which led back toward 
the main highway I pointed down it to the two girls .  

 " Go down there ,  "  I said .   " Youll meet people .  "  They 
looked at me .  I took out my pocket - book and gave them 
each a ten - lira note .   " Go down there ,  "  I said ,  pointing .  
 " Friends !  Family !  "  

They did not understand but they held the money 
tightly and started down the road .  They looked back 
as though they were afraid I might take the money 
back .  I watched them go down the road ,  their shawls 
close around them ,  looking back apprehensively at us .  
The three drivers were laughing .  



A FAREWELL TO ARMS 221 

 " How much will you give me to go in that direction ,  
Tenente ?  "  Bonello asked .  

 " Theyre better off in a bunch of people than alone 
if they catch them ,  "  I said .  

 " Give me two hundred lire and Ill walk straight 
back toward Austria ,  "  Bonello said .  

 " Theyd take it away from you ,  "  Piani said .  

 " Maybe the war will be over ,  "  Aymo said .  We were 
going up the road as fast as we could .  The sun was 
trying to come through .  Beside the road were mul -  
berry trees .  Through the trees I could see our two big 
moving - vans of cars stuck in the field .  Piani looked 
back too .  

 " Theyll have to build a road to get them out ,  "  he 
said .  

 " I wish to Christ we had bicycles ,  "  Bonello said .  

 " Do they ride bicycles in America ?  "  Aymo asked .  

 " They used to .  "  

 " Here it is a great thing ,  "  Aymo said .   " A bicycle is 
a splendid thing .  "  

 " I wish to Christ we had bicycles ,  "  Bonello said .   " Im 
no walker .  "  

 " Is that firing ?  "  I asked .  I thought I could hear 
firing a long way away .  

 " I dont know ,  "  Aymo said .  He listened .  

 " I think so ,  "  I said .  

 " The first thing we will see will be the cavalry ,  "  
Piani said .  

 " I dont think theyve got any cavalry .  "  

 " I hope to Christ not ,  "  Bonello said  " I dont want 
to be stuck on a lance by any cavalry .  "  

 " You certainly shot that sergeant ,  Tenente ,  "  Piani 
said .  We were walking fast .  

 " I killed him ,  "  Bonello said .   " I never killed anybody 



222 A FAREWELL TO ARMS 

in this war ,  and all my life Ive wanted to kill a ser -  
geant .  "  

 " You killed him on the sit all right ,  "  Piani said .  
 " He wasnt flying very fast when you killed him .  "  

 " Never mind .  Thats one thing I can always remem -  
ber .  I killed that of a sergeant .  "  

 " What will you say in confession ?  "  Aymo asked .  

 " Ill say ,  Bless me ,  father ,  I killed a sergeant/  "  They 
all laughed .  

 " Hes an anarchist ,  "  Piani said .   " He doesnt go to 
church .  "  

 " Pianis an anarchist too ,  "  Bonello said .  

 " Are you really anarchists ?  "  I asked .  

 " No ,  Tenente .  Were socialists .  We come from 
Imola .  "  

 " Havent you ever been there ?  "  

 " No .  "  

 " By Christ its a fine place ,  Tenente .  You come 
there after the war and well show you something .  "  

 " Are you all socialists ?  "  

 " Everybody .  "  

 " Is it a fine town ?  "  

 " Wonderful .  You never saw a town like that .  "  

 " How did you get to be socialists ?  "  

 " Were all socialists .  Everybody is a socialist .  
Weve always been socialists .  "  

 " You come ,  Tenente .  Well make you a socialist 
too .  "  

Ahead the road turned off to the left and there was 
a little hill and ,  beyond a stone wall ,  an apple orchard .  
As the road went uphill they ceased talking .  We walked 
along together all going fast against time .  



CHAPTER XXX 

Later we were on a road that led to a river .  There 
was a long line of abandoned trucks and carts on the 
road leading up to the bridge .  No one was in sight .  
The river was high and the bridge had been blown up 
in the centre  ;  the stone arch was fallen into the river 
and the brown water was going over it .  We went on 
up the bank looking for a place to cross .  Up ahead I 
knew there was a railway bridge and I thought we 
might be able to get across there .  The path was wet 
and muddy .  We did not see any troops ;  only aban -  
doned trucks and stores .  Along the river bank there 
was nothing and no one but the wet brush and muddy 
ground .  We went up to the bank and finally we saw 
the railway bridge .  

 " What a beautiful bridge/ Aymo said .  It was a 
long plain iron bridge across what was usually a dry 
river - bed .  

 " We better hurry and get across before they blow it 
up ,  "  I said .  

 " Theres nobody to blow it up ,  "  Piani said .   " Theyre 
all gone .  "  

 " Its probably mined ,  "  Bonello said .   " You cross 
first ,  Tenente .  "  

 " Listen to the anarchist ,  "  Aymo said .   " Make him 
go first .  "  

 " Ill go ,  "  I said .   " It wont be mined to blow up with 
one man .  "  

 " You see ,  "  Piani said .   " That is brains .  Why 
havent you brains ,  anarchist ?  "  

223 



224 A FAREWELL TO ARMS 

 " If I had brains I wouldnt be here/ Bonello said .  

 " Thats pretty good ,  Tenente ,  "  Aymo said .  

 " Thats pretty good ,  "  I said .  We were close to the 
bridge now .  The sky had clouded over again and it 
was raining a little .  The bridge looked long and solid .  
We climbed up the embankment .  

 " Come one at a time ,  "  I said and started across the 
bridge .  I watched the ties and the rails for any trip -  
wires or signs of explosive but I saw nothing .  Down 
below the gaps in the ties the river ran muddy and fast .  
Ahead across the wet countryside I could see Udine in 
the rain .  Across the bridge I looked back .  Just up the 
river was another bridge .  As I watched ,  a yellow mud -  
colored motor car crossed it .  The sides of the bridge 
were high and the body of the car ,  once on ,  was out of 
sight But I saw the heads of the driver ,  the man on 
the seat with him ,  and the two men on the rear seat .  
They all wore German helmets .  Then the car was over 
the bridge and out of sight behind the trees and the 
abandoned vehicles on the road .  I waved to Aymo 
who was crossing and to the others to come on .  I 
climbed down and crouched beside the railway embank -  
ment .  Aymo came down with me .  

 " Did you see the car ?  "  I asked .  

 " No .  We were watching you .  "  

 " A German staff car crossed on the upper bridge .  "  

 " A staff car ?  "  

 " Yes .  "  

 " Holy Mary .  "  

The others came and we all crouched in the mud be -  
hind the embankment ,  looking across the rails at the 
bridge ,  the line of trees ,  the ditch and the road .  

 " Do you think were cut off then ,  Tenente ?  "  

 " I dont know .  All I know is a German staff car 
went along that road .  "  



A FAREWELL TO ARMS 225 

 " You dont feel funny ,  Tenente ?  You havent got 
strange feelings in the head ?  "  

 " Dont be funny ,  Bonello .   ,  ,  

 " What about a drink ?  "  Piani asked .   " If were cut 
off we might as well have a drink .  "  He unhooked his 
canteen and uncorked it .  

 " Look !  Look !  "  Aymo said and pointed toward the 
road .  Along the top of the stone bridge we could see 
German helmets moving .  They were bent forward and 
moved smoothly ,  almost supernaturally ,  along .  As 
they came off the bridge we saw them .  They were 
bicycle troops .  I saw the faces of the first two .  They 
were ruddy and healthy - looking .  Their helmets came 
low down over their foreheads and the side of their 
faces .  Their carbines were clipped to the frame of the 
bicycles .  Stick bombs hung handle down from their 
belts .  Their helmets and their gray uniforms were wet 
and they rode easily ,  looking ahead and to both sides .  
There were two  then four in line ,  then two ,  then al -  
most a dozen ;  then another dozen  then one alone .  
They did not talk but we could not have heard them 
because of the noise from the river .  They were gone 
out of sight up the road .  

 " Holy Mary ,  "  Aymo said .  

 " They were Germans ,  "  Piani said .   " Those werent 
Austrians .  "  

 " Why isnt there somebody here to stop them ?  "  I 
said .   " Why havent they blown the bridge up ?  Why 
arent there machine - guns along this embankment ?  "  

 " You tell us ,  Tenente ,  "  Bonello said .  

I was very angry .  

 " The whole bloody thing is crazy .  Down below they 
blow up a little bridge .  Here they leave a bridge on 
the main road .  Where is everybody ?  Dont they try 
and stop them at all ?  "  



226 A FAREWELL TO ARMS 

 " You tell us ,  Tenente ,  "  Bonello said .  I shut up .  It 
was none of my business  ;  all I had to do was to get to 
Pordenone with three ambulances .  I had failed at that .  
All I had to do now was get to Pordenone .  I prob -  
ably could not even get to Udine .  The hell I couldnt .  
The thing to do was to be calm and not get shot or 
captured .  

 " Didnt you have a canteen open ?  "  I asked Piani .  
He handed it to me .  I took a long drink .   " We might 
as well start ,  "  I said .   " Theres no hurry though .  Do 
you want to eat something ?  "  

 " This is no place to stay ,  "  Bonello said .  

 " All right .  Well start .  "  

 " Should we keep on this side  out of sight ?  "  

 " Well be better off on top .  They may come along 
this bridge too .  We dont want them on top of us 
before we see them .  "  

We walked along the railroad track .  On both sides 
of us stretched the wet plain .  Ahead across the plain 
was the hill of Udine .  The roofs fell away from the 
castle on the hill .  We could see the campanile and the 
clock - tower .  There were many mulberry trees in the 
fields .  Ahead I saw a place where the rails were torn 
up .  The ties had been dug out too and thrown down 
the embankment .  

 " Down  !  down  !  "  Aymo said .  We dropped down be -  
side the embankment .  There was another group of 
bicyclists passing along the road .  I looked over the 
edge and saw them go on .  

 " They saw us but they went on ,  "  Aymo said .  

 " Well get killed up there ,  Tenente ,  "  Bonello said .  

 " They dont want us ,  "  I said .   " Theyre after some -  
thing else .  Were in more danger if they should come 
on us suddenly .  "  



A FAREWELL TO ARMS 227 

 " Id rather walk here out of sight ,  "  Bonello said .  

 " All right .  Well walk along the tracks .  "  

 " Do you think we can get through ?  "  Aymo asked .  

 " Sure .  There arent very many of them yet .  Well 
go through in the dark .  "  

 " What was that staff car doing ?  "  

 " Christ knows ,  "  I said .  We kept on up the tracks .  
Bonello tired of walking in the mud of the embank -  
ment and came up with the rest of us .  The railway 
moved south away from the highway now and we could 
not see what passed along the road .  A short bridge 
over a canal was blown up but we climbed across on 
what was left of the span .  We heard firing ahead of 
us .  

We came up on the railway beyond the canal .  It 
went on straight toward the town across the low fields .  
We could see the line of the other railway ahead of us .  
To the north was the main road where we had seen the 
cyclists ;  to the south there was a small branch - road 
across the fields with thick trees on each side .  I 
thought we had better cut to the south and work 
around the town that w T ay and across country toward 
Campoformio and the main road to the Tagliamento .  
We could avoid the main line of the retreat by keeping 
to the secondary roads beyond Udine .  I knew there 
were plenty of side - roads across the plain .  I started 
down the embankment .  

 " Come on ,  "  I said .  We would make for the side -  
road and work to the south of the town .  We all started 
down the embankment .  A shot was fired at us from the 
side - road .  The bullet went into the mud of the em -  
bankment .  

 " Go on back ,  "  I shouted .  I started up the embank -  
ment ,  slipping in the mud .  The drivers were ahead of 



228 A FAREWELL TO ARMS 

me .  I went up the embankment as fast as I could go .  
Two more shots came from the thick brush and Aymo ,  
as he was crossing the tracks ,  lurched ,  tripped and fell 
face down .  We pulled him down on the other side and 
turned him over .   " His head ought to be uphill ,  "  I 
said .  Piani moved him around .  He lay in the mud 
on the side of the embankment ,  his feet pointing down -  
hill ,  breathing blood irregularly .  The three of us 
squatted over him in the rain .  He was hit low in the 
back of the neck and the bullet had ranged upward and 
come out under the right eye .  He died while I was 
stopping up the two holes .  Piani laid his head down ,  
wiped at his face ,  with a piece of the emergency dress -  
ing ,  then let it alone .  

 " The  ,  "  he said .  

 " They werent Germans ,  "  I said .   " There cant be 
any Germans over there .  "  

 " Italians ,  "  Piani said ,  using the word as an epithet ,  
 " Italiani !  "  Bonello said nothing .  He was sitting be -  
side Aymo ,  not looking at him .  Piani picked up Aymos 
cap where it had rolled down the embankment and put 
it over his face .  He took out his canteen .  

 " Do you want a drink ?  "  Piani handed Bonello the 
canteen .  

 " No ,  "  Bonello said .  He turned to me .   " That might 
have happened to us any time on the railway tracks .  "  

 " No ,  "  I said .   " It was because we started across the 
field .  "  

Bonello shook his head .   " Aymos dead ,  "  he said .  
 " Whos dead next ,  Tenente ?  Where do we go now ?  "  

 " Those were Italians that shot ,  "  I said .   " They 
werent Germans .  "  

 " I suppose if they were Germans theyd have killed 
all of us ,  "  Bonello said .  



A FAREWELL TO ARMS 229 

 " We are in more danger from Italians than Ger -  
mans ,  "  I said .   " The rear guard are afraid of every -  
thing .  The Germans know what theyre after .  "  

 " You reason it out ,  Tenente ,  "  Bonello said .  

 " Where do we go now ?  "  Piani asked .  

 " We better lie up some place till its dark .  If we 
could get south wed be all right .  "  

 " Theyd have to shoot us all to prove they were right 
the first time ,  "  Bonello said .   " Im not going to try 
them .  "  

 " Well find a place to lie up as near to Udine as we 
can get and then go through when its dark .  "  

 " Lets go then ,  "  Bonello said .  We went down the 
north side of the embankment I looked back .  Aymo 
lay in the mud with the angle of the embankment .  He 
was quite small and his arms were by his side ,  his 
puttee - wrapped legs and muddy boots together ,  his cap 
over his face .  He looked very dead .  It was raining .  
I had liked him as well as any one I ever knew .  I had 
his papers in my pocket and would write to his family .  
Ahead across the fields was a farmhouse .  There were 
trees around it and the farm buildings were built 
against the house .  There was a balcony along the sec -  
ond floor held up by columns .  

 " We better keep a little way apart ,  "  I said .   " Ill go 
ahead .  "  I started toward the farmhouse .  There was a 
path across the field .  

Crossing the field ,  I did not know but that some one 
would fire on us from the trees near the farmhouse or 
from the farmhouse itself .  I walked toward it ,  seeing 
it very clearly .  The balcony of the second floor merged 
into the barn and there was hay coming out between 
the columns .  The courtyard was of stone blocks and 
all the trees were dripping with the rain .  There was a 



230 A FAREWELL TO ARMS 

big empty two - wheeled cart ,  the shafts tipped high up 
in the rain .  I came to the courtyard ,  crossed it ,  and 
stood under the shelter of the balcony .  The door of the 
house was open and I went in .  Bonello and Piani came 
in after me .  It was dark inside .  I went back to the 
kitchen .  There were ashes of a fire on the big open 
hearth .  The pots hung over the ashes ,  but they were 
empty .  I looked around but I could not find anything 
to eat .  

 " We ought to lie up in the barn ,  "  I said .   " Do you 
think you could find anything to eat ,  Piani ,  and bring 
it up there  ?  "  

Til look ,  "  Piani said .  

Til look too ,  "  Bonello said .  

 " All right ,  "  I said .  Til go up and look at the 
barn .  "  I found a stone stairway that went up from 
the stable underneath .  The stable smelt dry and pleas -  
ant in the rain .  The cattle were all gone ,  probably 
driven off when they left .  The barn was half full of 
hay .  There were two windows in the roof ,  one was 
blocked with boards ,  the other was a narrow dormer 
window on the north side .  There was a chute so that 
hay might be pitched down to the cattle .  Beams crossed 
the opening down into the main floor where the hay -  
carts drove in when the hay was hauled in to be pitched 
up .  I heard the rain on the roof and smelled the hay 
and ,  when I went down ,  the clean smell of dried dung 
in the stable .  We could pry a board loose and see out 
of the south window down into the courtyard .  The 
other window looked out on the field toward the north .  
We could get out of either window onto the roof and 
down ,  or go down the hay chute if the stairs were im -  
practical .  It was a big barn and we could hide in the 
hay if we heard any one .  It seemed like a good place .  



A FAREWELL TO ARMS 231 

I was sure we could have gotten through to the south 
if they had not fired on us .  It was impossible that there 
were Germans there .  They were coming from the north 
and down the road from Cividale .  They could not have 
come through from the south .  The Italians were even 
more dangerous .  They were frightened and firing on 
anything they saw .  Last night on the retreat we had 
heard that there had been many Germans in Italian 
uniforms mixing with the retreat in the north .  I did 
not believe it .  That was one of those things you always 
heard in the war .  It was one of the things the enemy 
always did to you .  You did not know any one who 
went over in German uniform to confuse them .  Maybe 
they did but it sounded difficult .  I did not believe the 
Germans did it .  I did not believe they had to .  There 
was no need to confuse our retreat .  The size of the 
army and the fewness of the roads did that .  Nobody 
gave any orders ,  let alone Germans .  Still ,  they would 
shoot us for Germans .  They shot Aymo .  The hay 
smelled good and lying in a barn in the hay took away 
all the years in between .  We had lain in hay and 
talked and shot sparrows with an air - rifle when they 
perched in the triangle cut high up in the wall of the 
barn .  The barn was gone now and one year they had 
cut the hemlock woods and there were only stumps ,  
dried tree - tops ,  branches and fireweed where the woods 
had been .  You could not go back .  If you did not go 
forward what happened  ?  You never got back to Milan .  
And if you got back to Milan what happened ?  I 
listened to the firing to the north toward Udine .  I 
could hear machine - gun firing .  There was no shelling .  
That was something .  They must have gotten some 
troops along the road .  I looked down in the half - light 
of the hay - barn and saw Piani standing on the hauling 



232 A FAREWELL TO ARMS 

floor .  He had a long sausage ,  a jar of something and 
two bottles of wine under his arm .  

 " Come up ,  "  I said .   " There is the ladder .  "  Then I 
realized that I should help him with the things and 
went down .  I was vague in the head from lying in the 
hay .  I had been nearly asleep .  

 " Wheres Bonello ?  "  I asked .  

 " Ill tell you ,  "  Piani said .  We went up the ladder .  
Up on the hay we set the things down .  Piani took out 
his knife with the corkscrew and drew the cork on a 
wine bottle .  

 " They have sealing - wax on it ,  "  he said .   " It must be 
good .  "  He smiled .  

 " Wheres Bonello ?  "  I asked .  

Piani looked at me .  

 " He went away ,  Tenente ,  "  he said .   " He wanted to 
be a prisoner .  "  

I did not say anything .  

 " He was afraid we would get killed .  "  

I held the bottle of wine and did not say anything .  

 " You see we dont believe in the war anyway ,  Ten -  
ente .  "  

 " Why didnt you go ?  "  I asked .  

 " I did not want to leave you .  "  

 " Where did he go ?  "  

 " I dont know ,  Tenente .  He went away .  "  

 " All right ,  "  I said .   " Will you cut the sausage ?  "  

Piani looked at me in the half - light .  

 " I cut it while we were talking ,  "  he said .  We sat 
in the hay and ate the sausage and drank the wine .  It 
must have been wine they had saved for a wedding .  It 
was so old that it was losing its color .  

 " You look out of this window ,  Luigi ,  "  I said .  Til 
go look out the other window .  "  



A FAREWELL TO ARMS 2 33 

We had each been drinking out of one of the bottles 
and I took my bottle with me and went over and lay 
flat on the hay and looked out the narrow window at 
the wet country .  I do not know what I expected to 
see but I did not see anything except the fields and the 
bare mulberry trees and the rain falling .  I drank the 
wine and it did not make me feel good .  They had kept 
it too long and it had gone to pieces and lost its quality 
and color .  I watched it get dark outside  ;  the darkness 
came very quickly .  It would be a black night with the 
rain .  When it was dark there was no use watching any 
more ,  so I went over to Piani .  He was lying asleep and 
I did not wake him but sat down beside him for a 
while .  He was a big man and he slept heavily .  After 
a while I woke him and we started .  

That was a very strange night .  I do not know what 
I had expected ,  death perhaps and shooting in the dark 
and running ,  but nothing happened .  We waited ,  lying 
flat beyond the ditch along the main road while a Ger -  
man battalion passed ,  then when they were gone we 
crossed the road and went on to the north .  We were 
very close to Germans twice in the rain but they did 
not see us .  We got past the town to the north without 
seeing any Italians ,  then after a while came on the 
main channels of the retreat and walked all night 
toward the Tagliamento .  I had not realized how gigan -  
tic the retreat was .  The whole country was moving ,  as 
well as the army .  We walked all night ,  making better 
time than the vehicles .  My leg ached and I was tired 
but we made good time .  It seemed so silly for Bonello 
to have decided to be taken prisoner .  There was no 
danger .  We had walked through two armies without 
incident .  If Aymo had not been killed there would 
never have seemed to be any danger .  No one had 



234 A FAREWELL TO ARMS 

bothered us when we were in plain sight along the rail -  
way .  The killing came suddenly and unreasonably .  I 
wondered where Bonello was .  

 " How do you feel ,  Tenente ?  "  Piani asked .  We were 
going along the side of a road crowded with vehicles 
and troops .  

 " Fine .  "  

 " Im tired of this walking .  "  

 " Well ,  all we have to do is walk now .  We dont have 
to worry .  "  

 " Bonello was a fool .  "  

 " He was a fool all right .  "  

 " What will you do about him ,  Tenente ?  "  

 " I dont know .  "  

 " Cant you just put him down as taken prisoner ?  "  

 " I dont know .  "  

 " You see if the war went on they would make bad 
trouble for his family .  "  

 " The war wont go on ,  "  a soldier said .   " Were 
going home .  The war is over .  "  

 " Everybodys going home .  "  

 " Were all going home .  "  

 " Come on ,  Tenente ,  "  Piani said .  He wanted to get 
past them .  

 " Tenente ?  Whos a Tenente ?  A basso gli ufficiali !  
Down with the officers  !  "  

Piani took me by the arm .   " I better call you by your 
name ,  "  he said .   " They might try and make trouble .  
Theyve shot some officers .  "  We worked up past them .  

 " I wont make a report that will make trouble for his 
family .  "  I went on with our conversation .  

 " If the war is over it makes no difference ,  "  Piani 
said .   " But I dont believe its over .  Its too good that 
it should be over .  "  



A FAREWELL TO ARMS 235 

 " Well know pretty soon ,  "  I said .  

 " I dont believe its over .  They all think its over 
but I dont believe it .  "  

 " Viva la Pace !  "  a soldier shouted out .   "  Were go -  
ing home  !  "  

 " It would be fine if we all went home ,  "  Piani said .  
 " Wouldnt you like to go home ?  "  

 " Yes .  "  

 " Well never go .  I dont think its over .  "  

 " Andiamo a casa !  "  a soldier shouted .  

 " They throw away their rifles ,  "  Piani said .   " They 
take them off and drop them down while theyre 
marching .  Then they shout .  "  

 " They ought to keep their rifles .  "  

 " They think if they throw away their rifles they 
cant make them fight .  "  

In the dark and the rain ,  making our way along the 
side of the road I could see that many of the troops 
still had their rifles .  They stuck up above the capes .  

 " What brigade are you ?  "  an officer called out .  

 " Brigata di Pace "  some one shouted .   " Peace Bri -  
gade !  "  The officer said nothing .  

 " What does he say ?  What does the officer say ?  "  

 " Down with the officer .  Viva la Pace !  "  

 " Come on ,  "  Piani said .  We passed two British am -  
bulances ,  abandoned in the block of vehicles .  

 " Theyre from Gorizia ,  "  Piani said .   " I know the 
cars .  "  

 " They got further than we did .  "  

 " They started earlier .  "  

 " I wonder where the drivers are ?  "  
  " Up ahead probably .  "  

 " The Germans have stopped outside Udine ,  "  I said .  
 " These people will all get across the river .  "  



236 A FAREWELL TO ARMS 

 " Yes ,  "  Piani said .   " Thats why I think the war will 
go on .  "  

 " The Germans could come on ,  "  I said .   " I wonder 
why they dont come on .  "  

 " I dont know .  I dont know anything about this 
kind of war .  "  

 " They have to wait for their transport I suppose .  "  

 " I dont know ,  "  Piani said .  Alone he was much 
gentler .  When he was with the others he was a very 
rough talker .  

 " Are you married ,  Luigi ?  "  

 " You know I am married .  "  

 " Is that why you did not want to be a prisoner ?  "  

 " That is one reason .  Are you married ,  Tenente ?  "  

 " No .  "  

 " Neither is Bonello .  "  

 " You cant tell anything by a mans being married .  
But I should think a married man would want to get 
back to his wife ,  "  I said .  I would be glad to talk about 
wives .  

 " Yes .  "  

 " How are your feet ?  "  

 " Theyre sore enough .  "  

Before daylight we reached the bank of the Taglia -  
mento and followed down along the flooded river to the 
bridge where all the traffic was crossing .  

 " They ought to be able to hold at this river ,  "  Piani 
said .  In the dark the flood looked high .  The water 
swirled and it was wide .  The wooden bridge was 
nearly three - quarters of a mile across ,  and the river ,  
that usually ran in narrow channels in the wide stony 
bed far below the bridge ,  was close under the wooden 
planking .  We went along the bank and then worked 



A FAREWELL TO ARMS 237 

our way into the crowd that were crossing the bridge .  
Crossing slowly in the rain a few feet above the flood ,  
pressed tight in the crowd ,  the box of an artillery caisson 
just ahead ,  I looked over the side and watched the 
river .  Now that we could not go our own pace I felt 
very tired .  There was no exhilaration in crossing the 
bridge .  I wondered what it would be like if a plane 
bombed it in the daytime .  

 " Piani ,  "  I said .  

 " Here I am ,  Tenente .  "  He was a little ahead in the 
jam .  No one was talking .  They were all trying to get 
across as soon as they could: thinking only of that .  
We were almost across .  At the far end of the bridge 
there were officers and carabinieri standing on both 
sides flashing lights .  I saw them silhouetted against 
the sky - line .  As we came close to them I saw one of 
the officers point to a man in the column .  A carabiniere 
went in after him and came out holding the man by the 
arm .  He took him away from the road .  We came 
almost opposite them .  The officers were scrutinizing 
every one in the column ,  sometimes speaking to each 
other ,  going forward to flash a light in some ones 
face .  They took some one else out just before we came 
opposite .  I saw the man .  He was a lieutenant - colo -  
nel .  I saw the stars in the box on his sleeve as they 
flashed a light on him .  His hair was gray and he was 
short and fat .  The carabiniere pulled him in behind the 
line of officers .  As we came opposite I saw one or 
two of them look at me .  Then one pointed at me and 
spoke to a carabiniere .  I saw the carabiniere start for 
me ,  come through the edge of the column toward me ,  
then felt him take me by the collar .  

 " Whats the matter with you ?  "  I said and hit him in 
the face .  I saw his face under the hat ,  upturned mus -  



238 A FAREWELL TO ARMS 

taches and blood coming down his cheek .  Another 
one dove in toward us .  

 " Whats the matter with you ?  "  I said .  He did not 
answer .  He was watching a chance to grab me .  I put 
my arm behind me to loosen my pistol .  

 " Dont you know you cant touch an officer  ?  "  

The other one grabbed me from behind and pulled 
my arm up so that it twisted in the socket .  I turned 
with him and the other one grabbed me around the 
neck .  I kicked his shins and got my left knee into his 
groin .  

 " Shoot him if he resists ,  "  I heard some one say .  

 " Whats the meaning of this ?  "  I tried to shout but 
my voice was not very loud .  They had me at the side 
of the road now .  

 " Shoot him if he resists ,  "  an officer said .   " Take him 
over back .  "  

 " Who are you ?  "  

 " Youll find out .  "  

 " Who are you ?  "  

 " Battle police ,  "  another officer said .  

 " Why dont you ask me to step over instead of hav -  
ing one of these airplanes grab me ?  "  

They did not answer .  They did not have to answer .  
They were battle police .  

 " Take him back there with the others ,  "  the first 
officer said .   " You see .  He speaks Italian with an ac -  
cent .  "  

 " So do you ,  you  ,  "  I said .  

 " Take him back with the others ,  "  the first officer 
said .  They took me down behind the line of officers 
below the road toward a group of people in a field by 
the river bank .  As we walked toward them shots were 
fired .  I saw flashes of the rifles and heard the reports .  



A FAREWELL TO ARMS 2 39 

We came up to the group .  There were four officers 
standing together ,  with a man in front of them with a 
carabiniere on each side of him .  A group of men were 
standing guarded by carabinieri .  Four other carabin -  
ieri stood near the questioning officers ,  leaning on their 
carbines .  They were wide - hatted carabinieri .  The 
two who had me shoved me in with the group waiting 
to be questioned .  I looked at the man the officers were 
questioning .  He was the fat gray - haired little lieuten -  
ant - colonel they had taken out of the column .  The 
questioners had all the efficiency ,  coldness and com -  
mand of themselves of Italians who are firing and are 
not being fired on .  

 " Your brigade  ?  "  

He told them .  

 " Regiment  ?  "  

He told them .  

 " Why are you not with your regiment  ?  "  

He told them .  

 " Do you not know that an officer should be with his 
troops  ?  "  

He did .  

That was all .  Another officer spoke .  

 " It is you and such as you that have let the barba -  
rians onto the sacred soil of the fatherland .  "  

 " I beg your pardon ,  "  said the lieutenant - colonel .  

 " It is because of treachery such as yours that we 
have lost the fruits of victory .  "  

 " Have you ever been in a retreat ?  "  the lieutenant -  
colonel asked .  

 " Italy should never retreat .  "  

We stood there in the rain and listened to this .  We 
were facing the officers and the prisoner stood in front 
and a little to one side of us .  



2 4 o A FAREWELL TO ARMS 

 " If you are going to shoot me ,  "  the lieutenant - colo -  
nel said ,   " please shoot me at once without further 
questioning .  The questioning is stupid .  "  He made the 
sign of the cross .  The officers spoke together .  One 
wrote something on a pad of paper .  

 " Abandoned his troops ,  ordered to be shot ,  "  he said .  

Two carabinieri took the lieutenant - colonel to the 
river bank .  He walked in the rain ,  an old man with 
his hat off ,  a carabiniere on either side .  I did not 
watch them shoot him but I heard the shots .  They 
were questioning some one else .  This officer too was 
separated from his troops .  He was not allowed to make 
an explanation .  He cried when they read the sentence 
from the pad of paper ,  and they were questioning an -  
other when they shot him .  They made a point of being 
intent on questioning the next man while the man who 
had been questioned before was being shot .  In this way 
there was obviously nothing they could do about it .  I 
did not know whether I should wait to be questioned or 
make a break now .  I was obviously a German in Italian 
uniform .  I saw how their minds worked ;  if they had 
minds and if they worked .  They were all young men 
and they were saving their country .  The second army 
was being re - formed beyond the Tagliamento .  They 
were executing officers of the rank of major and above 
who were separated from their troops .  They were also 
dealing summarily with German agitators in Italian uni -  
form .  They wore steel helmets .  Only two of us had 
steel helmets .  Some of the carabinieri had them .  The 
other carabinieri wore the wide hat .  Airplanes we called 
them .  We stood in the rain and were taken out one at 
a time to be questioned and shot .  So far they had shot 
every one they had questioned .  The questioners had 
that beautiful detachment and devotion to stern justice 



A FAREWELL TO ARMS 241 

of men dealing in death without being in any danger 
of it .  They were questioning a full colonel of a line 
regiment .  Three more officers had just been put in 
with us .  

 "  Where was his regiment  ?  "  

I looked at the carabinieri .  They were looking at the 
newcomers .  The others were looking at the colonel .  I 
ducked down ,  pushed between two men ,  and ran for 
the river ,  my head down .  I tripped at the edge and 
went in with a splash .  The water was very cold and I 
stayed under as long as I could .  I could feel the cur -  
rent swirl me and I stayed under until I thought I 
could never come up .  The minute I came up I took a 
breath and went down again .  It was easy to stay 
under with so much clothing and my boots .  When I 
came up the second time I saw a piece of timber ahead 
of me and reached it and held on with one hand .  I 
kept my head behind it and did not even look over it .  
I did not want to see the bank .  There were shots when 
I ran and shots when I came up the first time .  I heard 
them when I was almost above water .  There were no 
shots now .  The piece of timber swung in the current 
and I held it with one hand .  I looked at the bank .  It 
seemed to be going by very fast .  There was much 
wood in the stream .  The water was very cold .  We 
passed the brush of an island above the water .  I held 
onto the timber with both hands and let it take me 
along .  The shore was out of sight now .  



CHAPTER XXXI 

You do not know how long you are in a river when 
the current moves swiftly .  It seems a long time and it 
may be very short .  The water was cold and in flood 
and many things passed that had been floated off the 
banks when the river rose .  I was lucky to have a heavy 
timber to hold on to ,  and I lay in the icy water with 
my chin on the wood ,  holding as easily as I could with 
both hands .  I was afraid of cramps and I hoped we 
would move toward the shore .  We went down the 
river in a long curve .  It was beginning to be light 
enough so I could see the bushes along the shore - line .  
There was a brush island ahead and the current moved 
toward the shore .  I wondered if I should take off my 
boots and clothes and try to swim ashore ,  but decided 
not to .  I had never thought of anything but that I 
would reach the shore some way ,  and I would be in a 
bad position if I landed barefoot .  I had to get to Mestre 
some way .  

I watched the shore come close ,  then swing away ,  
then come closer again .  We were floating more slowly .  
The shore was very close now .  I could see twigs on 
the willow bush .  The timber swung slowly so that the 
bank was behind me and I knew we were in an eddy .  
We went slowly around .  As I saw the bank again ,  very 
close now ,  I tried holding with one arm and kicking 
and swimming the timber toward the bank with the 
other ,  but I did not bring it any closer .  I was afraid 
we would move out of the eddy and ,  holding with one 
hand ,  I drew up my feet so they were against the side 
of the timber and shoved hard toward the bank .  I 

242 



A FAREWELL TO ARMS 243 

could see the brush ,  but even with my momentum and 
swimming as hard as I could ,  the current was taking me 
away .  I thought then I would drown because of my 
boots ,  but I thrashed and fought through the water ,  
and when I looked up the bank was coming toward me ,  
and I kept thrashing and swimming in a heavy - footed 
panic until I reached it .  I hung to the willow branch 
and did not have strength to pull myself up but I knew 
I would not drown now .  It had never occurred to me 
on the timber that I might drown .  I felt hollow and 
sick in my stomach and chest from the effort ,  and I 
held to the branches and waited .  When the sick feeling 
was gone I pulled into the willow bushes and rested 
again ,  my arms around some brush ,  holding tight with 
my hands to the branches .  Then I crawled out ,  pushed 
on through the willows and onto the bank .  It was half -  
daylight and I saw no one .  I lay flat on the bank and 
heard the river and the rain .  

After a while I got up and started along the bank .  
I knew there was no bridge across the river until Lati -  
sana .  I thought I might be opposite San Vito .  I be -  
gan to think out what I should do .  Ahead there was a 
ditch running into the river .  I went toward it .  So far 
I had seen no one and I sat down by some bushes along 
the bank of the ditch and took off my shoes and emp -  
tied them of water .  I took off my coat ,  took my wallet 
with my papers and my money all wet in it out of the 
inside pocket and then wrung the coat out .  I took off 
my trousers and wrung them too ,  then my shirt and 
underclothing .  I slapped and rubbed myself and then 
dressed again .  I had lost my cap .  

Before I put on my coat I cut the cloth stars off my 
sleeves and put them in the inside pocket with my 
money .  My money was wet but was all right .  I count -  



244 A FAREWELL TO ARMS 

ed it .  There were three thousand and some lire .  My 
clothes felt wet and clammy and I slapped my arms to 
keep the circulation going .  I had woven underwear and 
I did not think I would catch cold if I kept moving .  
They had taken my pistol at the road and I put the 
holster under my coat .  I had no cape and it was cold 
in the rain .  I started up the bank of the canal .  It was 
daylight and the country was wet ,  low and dismal look -  
ing .  The fields were bare and wet ;  a long way away 
I could see a campanile rising out of the plain .  I came 
up onto a road .  Ahead I saw some troops coming down 
the road .  I limped along the side of the road and they 
passed me and paid no attention to me .  They were 
a machine - gun detachment going up toward the river .  
I went on down the road .  

That day I crossed the Venetian plain .  It is a low 
level country and under the rain it is even flatter .  To -  
ward the sea there are salt marshes and very few roads .  
The roads all go along the river mouths to the sea and 
to cross the country you must go along the paths beside 
the canals .  I was working across the country from the 
north to the south and had crossed two railway lines 
and many roads and finally I came out at the end of a 
path onto a railway line where it ran beside a marsh .  
It was the main line from Venice to Trieste ,  with a 
high solid embankment ,  a solid roadbed and double 
track .  Down the tracks a way was a flag - station and 
I could see soldiers on guard .  Up the line there was a 
bridge over a stream that flowed into the marsh .  I 
could see a guard too at the bridge .  Crossing the fields 
to the north I had seen a train pass on this railroad ,  
visible a long way across the flat plain ,  and I thought 
a train might come from Portogruaro .  I watched the 
guards and lay down on the embankment so that I 



A FAREWELL TO ARMS 245 

could see both ways along the track .  The guard at the 
bridge walked a way up the line toward where I lay ,  
then turned and went back toward the bridge .  I lay ,  
and was hungry ,  and waited for the train .  The one I 
had seen was so long that the engine moved it very 
slowly and I was sure I could get aboard it .  After I 
had almost given up hoping for one I saw a train com -  
ing .  The engine ,  coming straight on ,  grew larger slowly .  
I looked at the guard at the bridge .  He was walking 
on the near side of the bridge but on the other side of 
the tracks .  That would put him out of sight when the 
train passed .  I watched the engine come nearer .  It 
was working hard .  I could see there were many cars .  
I knew there would be guards on the train ,  and I tried 
to see where they were ,  but ,  keeping out of sight ,  I 
could not .  The engine was almost to where I was lying .  
When it came opposite ,  working and puffing even on the 
level ,  and I saw the engineer pass ,  I stood up and 
stepped up close to the passing cars .  If the guards 
were watching I was a less suspicious object standing 
beside the track .  Several closed freight - cars passed .  
Then I saw a low open car of the sort they call gondolas 
coming ,  covered with canvas .  I stood until it had al -  
most passed ,  then jumped and caught the rear hand -  
rods and pulled up .  I crawled down between the gon -  
dola and the shelter of the high freight - car behind .  I 
did not think any one had seen me .  I was holding to 
the hand - rods and crouching low ,  my feet on the coup -  
ling .  We were almost opposite the bridge .  I remem -  
bered the guard .  As we passed him he looked at me .  
He was a boy and his helmet was too big for him .  I 
stared at him contemptuously and he looked away .  He 
thought I had something to do with the train .  

We were past .  I saw him still looking uncomfort -  



246 A FAREWELL TO ARMS 

able ,  watching the other cars pass and I stooped to see 
how the canvas was fastened .  It had grummets and was 
laced down at the edge with cord .  I took out my knife ,  
cut the cord and put my arm under .  There were hard 
bulges under the canvas that tightened in the rain .  I 
looked up and ahead .  There was a guard on the 
freight - car ahead but he was looking forward .  I let 
go of the hand - rails and ducked under the canvas .  My 
forehead hit something that gave me a violent bump 
and I felt blood on my face but I crawled on in and lay 
flat .  Then I turned around and fastened down the can -  
vas .  

I was in under the canvas with guns .  They smelled 
cleanly of oil and grease .  I lay and listened to the 
rain on the canvas and the clicking of the car over the 
rails .  There was a little light came through and I lay 
and looked at the guns .  They had their canvas jackets 
on .  I thought they must have been sent ahead from 
the third army .  The bump on my forehead was swollen 
and I stopped the bleeding by lying still and letting it 
coagulate ,  then picked away the dried blood except over 
the cut .  It was nothing .  I had no handkerchief ,  but 
feeling with my fingers I washed away where the dried 
blood had been ,  with rain - water that dripped from the 
canvas ,  and wiped it clean with the sleeve of my coat .  
I did not want to look conspicuous .  I knew I would 
have to get out before they got to Mestre because they 
would be taking care of these guns .  They had no guns 
to lose or forget about .  I was terrifically hungry .  



CHAPTER XXXII 

Lying on the floor of the flat - car with the guns be -  
side me under the canvas I was wet ,  cold and very hun -  
gry .  Finally I rolled over and lay flat on my stomach 
with my head on my arms .  My knee was stiff ,  but it 
had been very satisfactory .  Valentini had done a fine 
job .  I had done half the retreat on foot and swum part 
of the Tagliamento with his knee .  It was his knee all 
right .  The other knee was mine .  Doctors did things 
to you and then it was not your body any more .  The 
head was mine ,  and the inside of the belly .  It was very 
hungry in there .  I could feel it turn over on itself .  The 
head was mine ,  but not to use ,  not to think with  ;  only 
to remember and not too much remember .  

I could remember Catherine but I knew I would get 
crazy if I thought about her when I was not sure yet I 
would see her ,  so I would not think about her ,  only 
about her a little ,  only about her with the car going 
slowly and clickingly ,  and some light through the can -  
vas and my lying with Catherine on the floor of the 
car .  Hard as the floor of the car to lie not thinking 
only feeling ,  having been away too long ,  the clothes 
wet and the floor moving only a little each time and 
lonesome inside and alone with wet clothing and hard 
floor for a wife .  

You did not love the floor of a flat - car nor guns with 
canvas jackets and the smell of vaselined metal or a 
canvas that rain leaked through ,  although it is very 
fine under a canvas and pleasant with guns ;  but you 
loved some one else whom now you knew was not even 
to be pretended there  ;  you seeing now very clearly and 

247 



248 A FAREWELL TO ARMS 

coldly  not so coldly as clearly and emptily .  You saw -  
emptily ,  lying on your stomach ,  having been present 
when one army moved back and another came forward .  
You had lost your cars and your men as a floorwalker 
loses the stock of his department in a fire .  There was ,  
however ,  no insurance .  You were out of it now .  You 
had no more obligation .  If they shot floorwalkers af -  
ter a fire in the department store because they spoke 
with an accent they had always had ,  then certainly the 
floorwalkers would not be expected to return when the 
store opened again for business .  They might seek other 
employment ;  if there was any other employment and 
the police did not get them .  

Anger was washed away in the river along with any 
obligation .  Although that ceased when the carabiniere 
put his hands on my collar .  I would like to have had 
the uniform off although I did not care much about the 
outward forms .  I had taken off the stars ,  but that was 
for convenience .  It was no point of honor .  I was not 
against them .  I was through .  I wished them all the 
luck .  There were the good ones ,  and the brave ones ,  and 
the calm ones and the sensible ones ,  and they deserved 
it .  But it was not my show any more and I wished this 
bloody train would get to Mestre and I would eat and 
stop thinking .  I would have to stop .  

Piani would tell them they had shot me .  They went 
through the pockets and took the papers of the people 
they shot .  They would not have my papers .  They might 
call me drowned .  I wondered what they would hear in 
the States .  Dead from wounds and other causes .  Good 
Christ I was hungry .  I wondered what had become of 
the priest at the mess .  And Rinaldi .  He was probably 
atPordenone .  If they had not gone further back .  Well ,  
I would never see him now .  I would never see any of 



A FAREWELL TO ARMS 249 

them now .  That life was over .  I did not think he had 
syphilis .  It was not a serious disease anyway if you 
took it in time ,  they said .  But he would worry .  I 
would worry too if I had it .  Any one would worry .  

I was not made to think .  I was made to eat .  My 
God ,  yes .  Eat and drink and sleep with Catherine .  
To - night maybe .  No that was impossible .  But to -  
morrow night ,  and a good meal and sheets and never 
going away again except together .  Probably have to 
go damned quickly .  She would go .  I knew she would 
go .  When would we go  ?  That was something to think 
about .  It was getting dark .  I lay and thought where 
we would go .  There were many places .  



BOOK IV 



CHAPTER XXXIII 

I dropped off the train in Milan as it slowed to come 
into the station early in the morning before it was light 
I crossed the track and came out between some build -  
ings and down onto the street .  A wine shop was open 
and I went in for some coffee .  It smelled of early 
morning ,  of swept dust ,  spoons in coffee - glasses and 
the wet circles left by wine - glasses .  The proprietor was 
behind the bar .  Two soldiers sat at a table .  I stood at 
the bar and drank a glass of coffee and ate a piece of 
bread .  The coffee was gray with milk ,  and I skimmed 
the milk scum off the top with a piece of bread .  The 
proprietor looked at me .  

 " You want a glass of grappa ?  "  

 " No thanks .  "  

 " On me ,  "  he said and poured a small glass and 
pushed it toward me .   " Whats happening at the front  ?  "  

 " I would not know .  "  

 " They are drunk ,  "  he said ,  moving his hand toward 
the two soldiers .  I could believe him .  They looked 
drunk .  

 " Tell me ,  "  he said ,   " what is happening at the 
front ?  "  

 " I would not know about the front .  "  

 " I saw you come down the wall .  You came off the 
train .  "  

 " There is a big retreat .  "  

 " I read the papers .  What happens ?  Is it over ?  "  

 " I dont think so .  "  

He filled the glass with grappa from a short bottle .  
 " If you are in trouble ,  "  he said ,   " I can keep you .  "  

253 



254 A FAREWELL TO ARMS 

 " I am not in trouble .  "  

 " If you are in trouble stay here with me .  "  

 " Where does one stay ?  "  

 " In the building .  Many stay here .  Any who are in 
trouble stay here .  "  

 " Are many in trouble ?  "  

 " It depends on the trouble .  You are a South Ameri -  
can ?  "  

 " No .  "  

 " Speak Spanish ?  "  

 " A little .  "  

He wiped off the bar .  

 " It is hard now to leave the country but in no way 
impossible .  "  

 " I have no wish to leave .  "  

 " You can stay here as long as you want .  You will 
see what sort of man I am .  "  

 " I have to go this morning but I will remember the 
address to return .  "  

He shook his head .   " You wont come back if you 
talk like that .  I thought you were in real trouble .  "  

 " I am in no trouble .  But I value the address of a 
friend .  "  

I put a ten - lira note on the bar to pay for the coffee .  

 " Have a grappa with me ,  "  I said .  

 " It is not necessary .  "  

 " Have one .  "  

He poured the two glasses .  

 " Remember ,  "  he said .   " Come here .  Do not let other 
people take you in .  Here you are all right .  "  

 " I am sure .  "  

 " You are sure ?  "  

 " Yes .  "  



A FAREWELL TO ARMS 255 

He was serious .   " Then let me tell you one thing .  
Do not go about with that coat .  "  

 " Why ?  "  

 " On the sleeves it shows very plainly where the stars 
have been cut away .  The cloth is a different color .  "  

I did not say anything .  

 " If you have no papers I can give you papers .  "  

 " What papers ?  "  

 " Leave - papers .  "  

 " I have no need for papers .  I have papers .  "  

 " All right ,  "  he said .   " But if you need papers I can 
get what you wish .  "  

 " How much are such papers ?  "  

 " It depends on what they are .  The price is reason -  
able .  "  

 " I dont need any now .  "  

He shrugged his shoulders .  

 " Im all right ,  "  I said .  

When I went out he said ,   " Dont forget that I am 
your friend .  "  

 " No .  "  

 " I will see you again ,  "  he said .  

 " Good ,  "  I said .  

Outside I kept away from the station ,  where there 
were military police ,  and picked up a cab at the edge 
of the little park .  I gave the driver the address of the 
hospital .  At the hospital I went to the porters lodge .  
His wife embraced me .  He shook my hand .  

 " You are back .  You are safe .  "  

 " Yes .  "  

 " Have you had breakfast ?  "  

 " Yes .  "  

 " How are you ,  Tenente ?  How are you ?  "  the wife 
asked .  



256 A FAREWELL TO ARMS 

 " Fine .  "  

 " Wont you have breakfast with us ?  "  

 " No ,  thank you .  Tell me is Miss Barkley here at the 
hospital now  ?  "  

 " Miss Barkley ?  "  

 " The English lady nurse .  "  

 " His girl ,  "  the wife said .  She patted my arm and 
smiled .  

 " No ,  "  the porter said .   " She is away .  "  

My heart went down .   " You are sure ?  I mean the 
tall blonde English young lady .  "  

 " I am sure .  She is gone to Stresa .  "  

 " When did she go ?  "  

 " She went two days ago with the other lady Eng -  
lish .  "  

 " Good ,  "  I said .   " I wish you to do something for me .  
Do not tell any one you have seen me .  It is very im -  
portant .  "  

 " I wont tell any one ,  "  the porter said .  I gave him 
a ten - lira note .  He pushed it away .  

 " I promise you I will tell no one ,  "  he said .   " I dont 
want any money .  "  

 " What can we do for you ,  Signor Tenente ?  "  his 
wife asked .  

 " Only that ,  "  I said .  

 " We are dumb ,  "  the porter said .   " You will let me 
know anything I can do  ?  "  

 " Yes ,  "  I said .   " Good - by .  I will see you again .  "  

They stood in the door ,  looking after me .  

I got into the cab and gave the driver the address of 
Simmons ,  one of the men I knew who was studying 
singing .  

Simmons lived a long way out in the town toward 



A FAREWELL TO ARMS 257 

the Porta Magenta .  He was still in bed and sleepy 
when I went to see him .  

 " You get up awfully early ,  Henry ,  "  he said .  

 " I came in on the early train .  "  

 " Whats all this retreat ?  Were you at the front ?  
Will you have a cigarette ?  Theyre in that box on the 
table .  "  It was a big room with a bed beside the wall ,  
a piano over on the far side and a dresser and table .  
I sat on a chair by the bed .  Simmons sat propped up 
by the pillows and smoked .  

 " Im in a jam ,  Sim ,  "  I said .  

 " So am I ,  "  he said .   " Im always in a jam .  Wont 
you smoke ?  "  

 " No ,  "  I said .   " Whats the procedure in going to 
Switzerland  ?  "  

 " For you ?  The Italians wouldnt let you out of the 
country .  "  

 " Yes .  I know that .  But the Swiss .  What will they 
do ?  "  

 " They intern you .  "  

 " I know .  But whats the mechanics of it ?  "  

 " Nothing .  Its very simple .  You can go anywhere .  
I think you just have to report or something .  Why ?  
Are you fleeing the police ?  "  

 " Nothing definite yet .  "  

 " Dont tell me if you dont want .  But it would be 
interesting to hear .  Nothing happens here .  I was a 
great flop at Piacenza .  "  

 " Im awfully sorry .  "  

 " Oh yes  I went very badly .  I sung well too .  Im 
going to try it again at the Lyrico here .  "  

 " Id like to be there .  "  

 " Youre awfully polite .  You arent in a bad mess ,  
are you ?  "  



258 A FAREWELL TO ARMS 

 " I dont know .  "  

 " Dont tell me if you dont want .  How do you hap -  
pen to be away from the bloody front ?  "  

 " I think Im through with it .  "  

 " Good boy .  I always knew you had sense .  Can I 
help you any way ?  "  

 " Youre awfully busy .  "  

 " Not a bit of it ,  my dear Henry .  Not a bit of it .  
Id be happy to do anything .  "  

 " Youre about my size .  Would you go out and buy 
me an outfit of civilian clothes ?  Ive clothes but theyre 
all at Rome .  "  

 " You did live there ,  didnt you ?  Its a filthy place .  
How did you ever live there  ?  "  

 " I wanted to be an architect .  "  

 " Thats no place for that .  Dont buy clothes .  Ill 
give you all the clothes you want .  Ill fit you out so 
youll be a great success .  Go in that dressing - room .  
Theres a closet .  Take anything you want .  My dear 
fellow ,  you dont want to buy clothes .  "  

 " Id rather buy them ,  Sim .  "  

 " My dear fellow ,  its easier for me to let you have 
them than go out and buy them .  Have you got a pass -  
port ?  You wont get far without a passport .  "  

 " Yes .  Ive still got my passport .  "  

 " Then get dressed ,  my dear fellow ,  and off to old 
Helvetia .  "  

 " Its not that simple .  I have to go up to Stresa first .  "  

 " Ideal ,  my dear fellow .  You just row a boat across .  
If I wasnt trying to sing ,  Id go with you .  Ill go yet .  "  

 " You could take up yodelling .  "  

 " My dear fellow ,  Ill take up yodelling yet .  I really 
can sing though .  Thats the strange part "  

 " Ill bet you can sing .  "  



A FAREWELL TO ARMS 259 

He lay back in bed smoking a cigarette .  

 " Dont bet too much .  But I can sing though .  Its 
damned funny ,  but I can .  I like to sing .  Listen .  "  He 
roared into  " Africana ,  "  his neck swelling ,  the veins 
standing out .   " I can sing ,  "  he said .   " Whether they like 
it or not .  "  I looked out of the window .   " Ill go down 
and let my cab go .  "  

 " Come back up ,  my dear fellow ,  and well have break -  
fast .  "  He stepped out of bed ,  stood straight ,  took a 
deep breath and commenced doing bending exercises .  
I went downstairs and paid off the cab .  



CHAPTER XXXIV 

In civilian clothes I felt a masquerader .  I had been 
in uniform a long time and I missed the feeling of 
being held by your clothes .  The trousers felt very 
floppy .  I had bought a ticket at Milan for Stresa .  I 
had also bought a new hat .  I could not wear Sims 
hat but his clothes were fine .  They smelled of tobacco 
and as I sat in the compartment and looked out the win -  
dow the new hat felt very new and the clothes very old .  
I myself felt as sad as the wet Lombard country that 
was outside through the window .  There were some 
aviators in the compartment who did not think much 
of me .  They avoided looking at me and were very 
scornful of a civilian my age .  I did not feel insulted .  
In the old days I would have insulted them and picked 
a fight .  They got off at Gallarate and I was glad to be 
alone .  I had the paper but I did not read it because I 
did not want to read about the war .  I was going to 
forget the war .  I had made a separate peace .  I felt 
damned lonely and was glad when the train got to 
Stresa .  

At the station I had expected to see the porters from 
the hotels but there was no one .  The season had been 
over a long time and no one met the train .  I got down 
from the train with my bag ,  it was Sims bag ,  and very 
light to carry ,  being empty except for two shirts ,  and 
stood under the roof of the station in the rain while 
the train went on .  I found a man in the station and 
asked him if he knew what hotels were open .  The Grand -  
Hotel & des Isles Borromees was open and several small 
hotels that stayed open all the year .  I started in the 

260 



A FAREWELL TO ARMS 261 

rain for the Isles Borromees carrying my bag .  I saw a 
carriage coming down the street and signalled to the 
driver .  It was better to arrive in a carriage .  We drove 
up to the carriage entrance of the big hotel and the con -  
cierge came out with an umbrella and was very polite .  

I took a good room .  It was very big and light and 
looked out on the lake .  The clouds were down over the 
lake but it would be beautiful with the sunlight .  I was 
expecting my wife ,  I said .  There was a big double bed ,  
a letto matrimoniale with a satin coverlet .  The hotel 
was very luxurious .  I went down the long halls ,  down 
the wide stairs ,  through the rooms to the bar .  I knew 
the barman and sat on a high stool and ate salted al -  
monds and potato chips .  The martini felt cool and 
clean .  

 " What are you doing here in borghese ?  "  the barman 
asked after he had mixed a second martini .  

 " I am on leave .  Convalescing - leave .  "  

 " There is no one here .  I dont know why they keep 
the hotel open .  "  

 " Have you been fishing  ?  "  

 " Ive caught some beautiful pieces .  Trolling this 
time of year you catch some beautiful pieces .  "  

 " Did you ever get the tobacco I sent ?  "  

 " Yes .  Didnt you get my card ?  "  

I laughed .  I had not been able to get the tobacco .  
It was American pipe - tobacco that he wanted ,  but my 
relatives had stopped sending it or it was being held up .  
Anyway it never came .  

 " Ill get some somewhere ,  "  I said .   " Tell me have you 
seen two English girls in the town ?  They came here 
day before yesterday .  "  

 " They are not at the hotel .  "  

 " They are nurses .  "  



262 A FAREWELL TO ARMS 

 " I have seen two nurses .  Wait a minute ,  I will find 
out where they are .  "  

 " One of them is my wife ,  "  I said .   " I have come 
here to meet her .  "  

 " The other is my wife .  "  

 " I am not joking .  "  

 " Pardon my stupid joke ,  "  he said .   " I did not under -  
stand .  "  He went away and was gone quite a little 
while .  I ate olives ,  salted almonds and potato chips 
and looked at myself in civilian clothes in the mirror be -  
hind the bar .  The bartender came back .   " They are at 
the little hotel near the station ,  "  he said .  

 " How about some sandwiches  ?  "  

 " Ill ring for some .  You understand there is nothing 
here ,  now there are no people .  "  

 " Isnt there really any one at all ?  "  

 " Yes .  There are a few people .  "  

The sandwiches came and I ate three and drank a 
couple more martinis .  I had never tasted anything so 
cool and clean .  They made me feel civilized .  I had had 
too much red wine ,  bread ,  cheese ,  bad coffee and grappa .  
I sat on the high stool before the pleasant mahogany ,  
the brass and the mirrors and did not think at all .  The 
barman asked me some question .  

 " Dont talk about the war ,  "  I said .  The war was a 
long way away .  Maybe there wasnt any war .  There 
was no war here .  Then I realized it was over for me .  
But I did not have the feeling that it was really over .  
I had the feeling of a boy who thinks of what is happen -  
ing at a certain hour at the schoolhouse from which he 
has played truant .  

Catherine and Helen Ferguson were at supper when 
I came to their hotel .  Standing in the hallway I saw 



A FAREWELL TO ARMS 263 

them at table .  Catherines face was away from me and 
I saw the line of her hair and her cheek and her lovely 
neck and shoulders .  Ferguson was talking .  She stopped 
when I came in .  

 " My God ,  "  she said .  

 " Hello ,  "  I said .  

 " Why its you !  "  Catherine said .  Her face lighted 
up .  She looked too happy to believe it .  I kissed her .  
Catherine blushed and I sat down at the table .  

 " Youre a fine mess ,  "  Ferguson said .   " What are 
you doing here ?  Have you eaten ?  "  

 " No .  "  The girl who was serving the meal came in 
and I told her to bring a plate for me .  Catherine looked 
at me all the time ,  her eyes happy .  

 " What are you doing in mufti  ?  "  Ferguson asked .  

 " Im in the Cabinet .  "  

 " Youre in some mess .  "  

 " Cheer up ,  Fergy .  Cheer up just a little .  "  

 " Im not cheered by seeing you .  I know the mess 
youve gotten this girl into .  Youre no cheerful sight 
to me .  "  

Catherine smiled at me and touched me with her 
foot under the table .  

 " No one got me in a mess ,  Fergy .  I get in my own 
messes .  "  

 " I cant stand him ,  "  Ferguson said .   " Hes done 
nothing hut ruin you with his sneaking Italian tricks .  
Americans are worse than Italians .  "  

 " The Scotch are such a moral people ,  "  Catherine 
said .  

 " I dont mean that .  I mean his Italian sneakiness .  "  

 " Am I sneaky ,  Fergy ?  "  

 " You are .  Youre worse than sneaky .  Youre like a 



264 A FAREWELL TO ARMS 

snake .  A snake with an Italian uniform: with a cape 
around your neck .  "  

 " I havent got an Italian uniform now .  "  

 " Thats just another example of your sneakiness .  
You had a love affair all summer and got this girl with 
child and now I suppose youll sneak off .  "  

I smiled at Catherine and she smiled at me .  

 " Well both sneak off ,  "  she said .  

 " Youre two of the same thing ,  "  Ferguson said .  
 " Im ashamed of you ,  Catherine Barkley .  You have 
no shame and no honor and youre as sneaky as he is .  "  

 " Dont ,  Fergy ,  "  Catherine said and patted her hand .  
 " Dont denounce me .  You know we like each other .  "  

 " Take your hand away ,  "  Ferguson said .  Her face 
was red .   " If you had any shame it would be different .  
But youre God knows how many months gone with 
child and you think its a joke and are all smiles because 
your seducers come back .  Youve no shame and no 
feelings .  "  She began to cry .  Catherine went over and 
put her arm around her .  As she stood comforting Fer -  
guson ,  I could see no change in her figure .  

 " I dont care ,  "  Ferguson sobbed .   " I think its dread -  
ful .  "  

 " There ,  there ,  Fergy ,  "  Catherine comforted her .  
 " Ill be ashamed .  Dont cry ,  Fergy .  Dont cry ,  old 
Fergy .  "  

 " Im not crying ,  "  Ferguson sobbed .   " Im not crying .  
Except for the awful thing youve gotten into .  "  She 
looked at me .   " I hate you ,  "  she said .   " She cant make 
me not hate you .  You dirty sneaking American Ital -  
ian .  "  Her eyes and nose were red with crying .  

Catherine smiled at me .  

 " Dont you smile at him with your arm around me .  "  

 " Youre unreasonable ,  Fergy .  "  



A FAREWELL TO ARMS 265 

 " I know it ,  "  Ferguson sobbed .   " You mustnt mind 
me ,  either of you .  Im so upset .  Im not reasonable .  I 
know it .  I want you both to be happy .  "  

 " Were happy ,  "  Catherine said .   " Youre a sweet 
Fergy .  "  

Ferguson cried again .   " I dont want you happy the 
way you are .  Why dont you get married  ?  You havent 
got another wife have you ?  "  

 " No ,  "  I said .  Catherine laughed .  

 " Its nothing to laugh about ,  "  Ferguson said .  
 " Plenty of them have other wives .  "  

 " Well be married ,  Fergy ,  "  Catherine said ,   " if it 
will please you .  "  

 " Not to please me .  You should want to be married .  "  

 " Weve been very busy .  "  

 " Yes .  I know .  Busy making babies .  "  I thought 
she was going to cry again but she went into bitterness 
instead .   " I suppose youll go off with him now to -  
night ?  "  

 " Yes ,  "  said Catherine .   " If he wants me .  "  

 " What about me ?  "  

 " Are you afraid to stay here alone ?  "  

 " Yes ,  I am .  "  

 " Then Ill stay with you .  "  

 " No ,  go on with him .  Go with him right away .  
Im sick of seeing both of you .  "  

 " Wed better finish dinner .  "  

 " No .  Go right away .  "  

 " Fergy ,  be reasonable .  "  

 " I say get out right away .  Go away both of you .  "  

 " Lets go then ,  "  I said .  I was sick of Fergy .  

 " You do want to go .  You see you want to leave me 
even to eat dinner alone .  Ive always wanted to go to 



266 A FAREWELL TO ARMS 

the Italian lakes and this is how it is .  Oh ,  Oh ,  "  she 
sobbed ,  then looked at Catherine and choked .  

 " Well stay till after dinner ,  "  Catherine said .   " And 
HI not leave you alone if you want me to stay .  I 
wont leave you alone ,  Fergy .  "  

 " No .  No .  I want you to go .  I want you to go .  "  
She wiped her eyes .   " Im so unreasonable .  Please 
dont mind me .  "  

The girl who served the meal had been upset by all 
the crying .  Now as she brought in the next course 
she seemed relieved that things were better .  

That night at the hotel ,  in our room with the long 
empty hall outside and our shoes outside the door ,  a 
thick carpet on the floor of the room ,  outside the win -  
dows the rain falling and in the room light and pleas -  
ant and cheerful ,  then the light out and it exciting with 
smooth sheets and the bed comfortable ,  feeling that we 
had come home ,  feeling no longer alone ,  waking in the 
night to find the other one there ,  and not gone away ;  
all other things were unreal .  We slept when we were 
tired and if we woke the other one woke too so one 
was not alone .  Often a man wishes to be alone and a 
girl wishes to be alone too and if they love each other 
they are jealous of that in each other ,  but I can truly 
say we never felt that .  We could feel alone when we 
were together ,  alone against the others .  It has only 
happened to me like that once .  I have been alone while 
I was with many girls and that is the way that you can 
be most lonely .  But we were never lonely and never 
afraid when we were together .  I know that the night 
is not the same as the day : that all things are different ,  
that the things of the night cannot be explained in the 
day ,  because they do not then exist ,  and the night can 



A FAREWELL TO ARMS 267 

be a dreadful time for lonely people once their loneli -  
ness has started .  But with Catherine there was almost 
no difference in the night except that it was an even 
better time .  If people bring so much courage to this 
world the world has to kill them to break them ,  so of 
course it kills them .  The world breaks every one and 
afterward many are strong at the broken places .  But 
those that will not break it kills .  It kills the very good 
and the very gentle and the very brave impartially .  If 
you are none of these you can be sure it will kill you 
too but there will be no special hurry .  

I remember waking in the morning .  Catherine was 
asleep and the sunlight was coming in through the win -  
dow .  The rain had stopped and I stepped out of bed 
and across the floor to the window .  Down below were 
the gardens ,  bare now but beautifully regular ,  the 
gravel paths ,  the trees ,  the stone wall by the lake and the 
lake in the sunlight with the mountains beyond .  I 
stood at the window looking out and when I turned 
away L saw Catherine was awake and watching me .  

 " How are you ,  darling  ?  "  she said .   " Isnt it a lovely 
day ?  "  

 " How do you feel  ?  "  

 " I feel very well .  We had a lovely night .  "  

 " Do you want breakfast ?  "  

She wanted breakfast .  So did I and we had it in 
bed ,  the November sunlight coming in the window ,  and 
the breakfast tray across my lap .  

 " Dont you want the paper ?  You always wanted the 
paper in the hospital .  "  

 " No ,  "  I said .   " I dont want the paper now .  "  

 " Was it so bad you dont want even to read about 
it ?  "  



268 A FAREWELL TO ARMS 

 " I dont want to read about it .  "  

 " I wish I had been with you so I would know about 
it too .  "  

 " Ill tell you about it if I ever get it straight in my 
head .  "  

 " But wont they arrest you if they catch you out of 
uniform ?  "  

 " Theyll probably shoot me .  "  

 " Then well not stay here .  Well get out of the 
country .  "  

 " Id thought something of that .  "  

 " Well get out .  Darling ,  you shouldnt take silly 
chances .  Tell me how did you come from Mestre to 
Milan ?  "  

 " I came on the train .  I was in uniform then .  "  

 " Werent you in danger then ?  "  

 " Not much .  I had an old order of movement .  I 
fixed the dates on it in Mestre .  "  

 " Darling ,  youre liable to be arrested here any time .  
I wont have it .  Its silly to do something like that .  
Where would we be if they took you off ?  "  

 " Lets not think about it .  Im tired of thinking 
about it .  "  

 " What would you do if they came to arrest you ?  "  

 " Shoot them .  "  

 " You see how silly you are ,  I wont let you go out of 
the hotel until we leave here .  "  

 " Where are we going to go ?  "  

 " Please dont be that way ,  darling .  Well go where -  
ever you say .  But please find some place to go right 
away .  "  

 " Switzerland is down the lake ,  we can go there .  "  

 " That will be lovely .  "  



A FAREWELL TO ARMS 269 

It was clouding over outside and the lake was dark -  
ening .  

 " I wish we did not always have to live like crimi -  
nals ,  "  I said .  

 " Darling ,  dont be that way .  You havent lived like 
a criminal very long .  And we never live like criminals .  
Were going to have a fine time .  "  

 " I feel like a criminal .  Ive deserted from the army .  "  

 " Darling ,  please be sensible .  Its not deserting from 
the army .  Its only the Italian army .  "  

I laughed .   " Youre a fine girl .  Lets get back into 
bed .  I feel fine in bed .  "  

A little while later Catherine said ,   " You dont feel 
like a criminal do you ?  "  

 " No ,  "  I said .   " Not when Im with you .  "  

 " Youre such a silly boy ,  "  she said .   " But Ill look 
after you .  Isnt it splendid ,  darling ,  that I dont have 
any morning - sickness  ?  "  

 " Its grand .  "  

 " You dont appreciate what a fine wife you have .  
But I dont care .  Ill get you some place where they 
cant arrest you and then well have a lovely time .  "  

 " Lets go there right away .  "  

 " We will ,  darling .  Ill go any place any time you 
wish .  "  

 " Lets not think about anything .  "  

 " All right .  "  



CHAPTER XXXV 

Catherine went along the lake to the little hotel to 
see Ferguson and I sat in the bar and read the papers .  
There were comfortable leather chairs in the bar and I 
sat in one of them and read until the barman came in .  
The army had not stood at the Tagliamento .  They 
were falling back to the Piave .  I remembered the 
Piave .  The railroad crossed it near San Dona going 
up to the front .  It was deep and slow there and quite 
narrow .  Down below there were mosquito marshes 
and canals .  There were some lovely villas .  Once ,  be -  
fore the war ,  going up to Cortina DAmpezzo I had 
gone along it for several hours in the hills .  Up there 
it looked like a trout stream ,  flowing swiftly with shal -  
low stretches and pools under the shadow of the rocks .  
The road turned off from it at Cadore .  I wondered 
how the army that was up there would come down .  
The barman came in .  

 " Count Greffi was asking for you ,  "  he said .  

 " Who ?  "  

 " Count Greffi .  You remember the old man who was 
here when you were here before .  "  

 " Is he here ?  "  

 " Yes ,  hes here with his niece .  I told him you were 
here .  He wants you to play billiards .  "  

 " Where is he ?  "  

 " Hes taking a walk .  "  

 " How is he ?  "  

 " Hes younger than ever .  He drank three cham -  
pagne cocktails last night before dinner .  "  

 " Hows his billiard game ?  "  
270 



A FAREWELL TO ARMS 271 

 " Good .  He beat me .  When I told him you were 
here he was very pleased .  Theres nobody here for him 
to play with .  "  

Count Greffi was ninety - four years old .  He had 
been a contemporary of Metternich and was an old 
man with white hair and mustache and beautiful man -  
ners .  He had been in the diplomatic service of both 
Austria and Italy and his birthday parties were the 
great social event of Milan .  He was living to be one 
hundred years old and played a smoothly fluent game 
of billiards that contrasted with his own ninety - four -  
year - old brittleness .  I had met him when I had been 
at Stresa once before out of season and while we 
played billiards we drank champagne .  I thought it was 
a splendid custom and he gave me fifteen points in a 
hundred and beat me .  

 " Why didnt you tell me he was here ?  "  

 " I forgot it .  "  

 " Who else is here ?  "  

 " No one you know .  There are only six people alto -  
gether .  "  

 " What are you doing now ?  "  

 " Nothing .  "  

 " Come on out fishing .  "  

 " I could come for an hour .  "  

 " Come on .  Bring the trolling line .  "  

The barman put on a coat and we went out .  We 
went down and got a boat and I rowed while the bar -  
man sat in the stern and let out the line with a spinner 
and a heavy sinker on the end to troll for lake trout .  
We rowed along the shore ,  the barman holding the line 
in his hand and giving it occasional jerks forward .  
Stresa looked very deserted from the lake .  There were 
the long rows of bare trees ,  the big hotels and the 



272 A FAREWELL TO ARMS 

closed villas .  I rowed across to Isola Bella and went 
close to the walls ,  where the water deepened sharply ,  
and you saw the rock wall slanting down in the clear 
water ,  and then up and along to the fishermans island .  
The sun was under a cloud and the water was dark and 
smooth and very cold .  We did not have a strike though 
we saw some circles on the water from rising fish .  

I rowed up opposite the fishermans island where 
there were boats drawn up and men were mending nets .  

 " Should we get a drink  ?  "  

 " All right "  

I brought the boat up to the stone pier and the bar -  
man pulled in the line ,  coiling it on the bottom of the 
boat and hooking the spinner on the edge of the gun -  
wale .  I stepped out and tied the boat .  We went into a 
little cafe ,  sat at a bare wooden table and ordered ver -  
mouth .  

 " Are you tired from rowing ?  "  

 " No .  "  

 " Ill row back ,  "  he said .  

 " I like to row .  "  

 " Maybe if you hold the line it will change the luck .  "  

 " All right .  "  

 " Tell me how goes the war .  "  

 " Rotten .  "  

 " I dont have to go .  Im too old ,  like Count Greffi .  "  

 " Maybe youll have to go yet .  "  

 " Next year theyll call my class .  But I wont go .  "  

 " What will you do ?  "  

 " Get out of the country .  I wouldnt go to war .  I 
was at the war once in Abyssinia .  Nix .  Why do you 
go ?  "  

 " I dont know .  I was a fool .  "  

 " Have another vermouth ?  "  



A FAREWELL TO ARMS 273 

 " All right .  "  

The barman rowed back .  We trolled up the lake be -  
yond Stresa and then down not far from shore .  I 
held the taut line and felt the faint pulsing of the spin -  
ner revolving while I looked at the dark November 
water of the lake and the deserted shore .  The barman 
rowed with long strokes and on the forward thrust of 
the boat the line throbbed .  Once I had a strike: the 
line hardened suddenly and jerked back ,  I pulled and 
felt the live weight of the trout and then the line 
throbbed again .  I had missed him .  

 " Did he feel big ?  "  

 " Pretty big .  "  

 " Once when I was out trolling alone I had the line 
in my teeth and one struck and nearly took my mouth 
out "  

 " The best way is to have it over your leg ,  "  I said .  
 " Then you feel it and dont lose your teeth .  "  

I put my hand in the water .  It was very cold .  We 
were almost opposite the hotel now .  

 " I have to go in ,  "  the barman said ,   " to be there for 
eleven oclock .  Lheure du cocktail .  

 " All right .  "  

I pulled in the line and wrapped it on a stick notched 
at each end .  The barman put the boat in a little slip in 
the stone wall and locked it with a chain and padlock .  

 " Any time you want it ,  "  he said ,   " Ill give you the 
key .  "   "  

 " Thanks .  "  

We went up to the hotel and in to the bar .  I did not 
want another drink so early in the morning so I went 
up to our room .  The maid had just finished doing the 
room and Catherine was not back yet .  I lay down on 
the bed and tried to keep from thinking .  



274 A FAREWELL TO ARMS 

When Catherine came back it was all right again .  
Ferguson was downstairs ,  she said .  She was coming 
to lunch .  

 " I knew you wouldnt mind ,  "  Catherine said .  

 " No ,  "  I said .  

 " Whats the matter ,  darling  ?  "  

 " I dont know .  "  

 " I know .  You havent anything to do .  All you have 
is me and I go away .  "  

 " Thats true .  "  

 " Im sorry ,  darling .  I know it must be a dreadful 
feeling to have nothing at all suddenly .  "  

 " My life used to be full of everything ,  "  I said .  
 " Now if you arent with me I havent a thing in the 
world .  "  

 " But Ill be with you .  I was only gone for two 
hours .  Isnt there anything you can do ?  "  

 " I went fishing with the barman .  "  

 " Wasnt it fun ?  "  

 " Yes .  "  

 " Dont think about me when Im not here .  "  

 " Thats the way I worked it at the front .  But there 
was something to do then .  "  

 " Othello with his occupation gone ,  "  she teased .  

 " Othello was a nigger ,  "  I said .   " Besides ,  Im not 
jealous .  Im just so in love with you that there isnt 
anything else .  "  

 " Will you be a good boy and be nice to Ferguson ?  "  

 " Im always nice to Ferguson unless she curses me .  "  

 " Be nice to her .  Think how much we have and she 
hasnt anything .  "  

 " I dont think she wants what we have .  "  

 " You dont know much ,  darling ,  for such a wise 
boy .  "  



A FAREWELL TO ARMS 275 

 " Ill be nice to her .  "  

 " I know you will .  Youre so sweet .  "  

 " She wont stay afterward ,  will she ?  "  

 " No .  Ill get rid of her .  "  

 " And then well come up here .  "  

 " Of course .  What do you think I want to do ?  "  

We went downstairs to have lunch with Ferguson .  
She was very impressed by the hotel and the splendor 
of the dining - room .  We had a good lunch with a 
couple of bottles of white capri .  Count Greffi came 
into the dining - room and bowed to us .  His niece ,  who 
looked a little like my grandmother ,  was with him .  I 
told Catherine and Ferguson about him and Ferguson 
was very impressed .  The hotel was very big and grand 
and empty but the food was good ,  the wine was very 
pleasant and finally the wine made us all feel very well .  
Catherine had no need to feel any better .  She was 
very happy .  Ferguson became quite cheerful .  I felt 
very well myself .  After lunch Ferguson went back to 
her hotel .  She was going to lie down for a while after 
lunch she said .  

Along late in the afternoon some one knocked on 
our door .  

 " Who is it ?  "  

 " The Count Greffi wishes to know if you will play 
billiards with him .  "  

I looked at my watch  ;  I had taken it off and it was 
under the pillow .  

 " Do you have to go ,  darling ?  "  Catherine whispered .  

 " I think Fd better .  "  The watch was a quarter - past 
four oclock .  Out loud I said ,   " Tell the Count Greffi 
I will be in the billiard - room at five oclock .  "  

At a quarter to five I kissed Catherine good - by and 
went into the bathroom to dress .  Knotting my tie and 



276 A FAREWELL TO ARMS 

looking in the glass I looked strange to myself in the 
civilian clothes .  I must remember to buy some more 
shirts and socks .  

 " Will you be away a long time ?  "  Catherine asked .  
She looked lovely in the bed .   " Would you hand me the 
brush ?  "  

I watched her brushing her hair ,  holding her head so 
the weight of her hair all came on one side .  It was 
dark outside and the light over the head of the bed 
shone on her hair and on her neck and shoulders .  I 
went over and kissed her and held her hand with the 
brush and her head sunk back on the pillow .  I kissed 
her neck and shoulders .  I felt faint with loving her so 
much .  

 " I dont want to go away .  "  

 " I dont want you to go away .  "  

 " I wont go then .  "  

 " Yes .  Go .  Its only for a little while and then 
youll come back .  "  

 " Well have dinner up here .  "  

 " Hurry and come back .  "  

I found the Count Greffi in the billiard - room .  He 
was practising strokes ,  looking very fragile under the 
light that came down above the billiard table .  On a card 
table a little way beyond the light was a silver icing -  
bucket with the necks and corks of two champagne 
bottles showing above the ice .  The Count Greffi 
straightened up when I came toward the table and 
walked toward me .  He put out his hand ,   " It is such a 
great pleasure that you are here .  You were very kind 
to come to play with me .  "  

 " It was very nice of you to ask me .  "  

 " Are you quite well ?  They told me you were 



A FAREWELL TO ARMS 277 

wounded on the Isonzo .  I hope you are well again .  "  

 " Im very well .  Have you been well ?  "  

 " Oh ,  I am always well .  But I am getting old .  I 
detect signs of age now .  "  

 " I cant believe it .  "  

 " Yes .  Do you want to know one ?  It is easier for 
me to talk Italian .  I discipline myself but I find when 
I am tired that it is so much easier to talk Italian .  So 
I know I must be getting old .  "  

 " We could talk Italian .  I am a little tired too .  "  

 " Oh ,  but when you are tired it will be easier for you 
to talk English .  "  

 " American .  "  

 " Yes .  American .  You will please talk American .  It 
is a delightful language .  "  

 " I hardly ever see Americans .  "  

 " You must miss them .  One misses ones country -  
men and especially ones countrywomen .  I know that 
experience .  Should we play or are you too tired ?  "  

 " Im not really tired .  I said that for a joke .  What 
handicap will you give me  ?  "  

 " Have you been playing very much ?  "  

 " None at all .  "  

 " You play very well .  Ten points in a hundred ?  "  

 " You flatter me .  "  

 " Fifteen ?  "  

 " That would be fine but you will beat me .  "  

 " Should we play for a stake ?  You always wished to 
play for a stake .  "  

 " I think wed better .  "  

 " All right .  I will give you eighteen points and we 
will play for a franc a point .  "  

He played a lovely game of billiards and with the 



278 A FAREWELL TO ARMS 

handicap I was only four ahead at fifty .  Count Greffi 
pushed a button on the wall to ring for the barman .  

 " Open one bottle please ,   ,  ,  he said .  Then to me ,   " We 
will take a little stimulant .   ,  ,  The wine was icy cold and 
very dry and good .  

 " Should we talk Italian ?  Would you mind very 
much ?  It is my great weakness now .  "  

We went on playing ,  sipping the wine between shots ,  
speaking in Italian ,  but talking little ,  concentrated on 
the game .  Count Greffi made his one hundredth point 
and with the handicap I was only at ninety -  four .  He 
smiled and patted me on the shoulder .  

 " Now we will drink the other bottle and you will 
tell me about the war .  "  He waited for me to sit down .  

 " About anything else ,  "  I said .  

 " You dont want to talk about it ?  Good .  What 
have you been reading  ?  "  

 " Nothing ,  "  I said .   " Im afraid I am very dull .  "  

 " No .  But you should read .  "  

 " What is there written in war - time ?  "  

 " There is Le Feu by a Frenchman ,  Barbusse .  
There is Mr .  Britling Sees Through It .   "  

 " No ,  he doesnt .  "  

 " What ?  "  

 " He doesnt see through it .  Those books were at the 
hospital .  "  

 " Then you have been reading ?  "  

 " Yes ,  but nothing any good .  "  

 " I thought Mr .  Britling a very good study of the 
English middle - class soul .  "  

 " I dont know about the soul .  "  

 " Poor boy .  We none of us know about the soul .  
Are you Croyant ?  "  

 " At night .  "  



A FAREWELL TO ARMS 279 

Count Greffi smiled and turned the glass with his fin -  
gers .   " I had expected to become more devout as I grow 
older but somehow I havent/ he said .   " It is a great 
pity .  "  

 " Would you like to live after death ?  "  I asked and 
instantly felt a fool to mention death .  But he did not 
mind the word .  

 " It would depend on the life .  This life is very pleas -  
ant .  I would like to live forever ,  "  he smiled .   " I very 
nearly have .  "  

We were sitting in the deep leather chairs ,  the cham -  
pagne in the ice - bucket and our glasses on the table 
between us .  

 " If you ever live to be as old as I am you will find 
many things strange .  "  

 " You never seem old .  "  

 " It is the body that is old .  Sometimes I am afraid 
I will break off a finger as one breaks a stick of chalk .  
And the spirit is no older and not much wiser .  "  

 " You are wise .  "  

 " No ,  that is the great fallacy ;  the wisdom of old 
men .  They do not grow wise .  They grow careful .  "  

 " Perhaps that is wisdom .  "  

 " It is a very unattractive wisdom .  What do you 
value most ?  "  

 " Some one I love .  "  

 " With me it is the same .  That is not wisdom .  Do 
you value life ?  "  

 " Yes .  "  

 " So do I .  Because it is all I have .  And to give 
birthday parties ,  "  he laughed .   " You are probably wiser 
than I am .  You do not give birthday parties .  "  

We both drank the wine .  

 " What do you think of the war really ?  "  I asked .  



280 A FAREWELL TO ARMS 

 " I think it is stupid/ 

 " Who will win it ?  "  

 " Italy .  "  

 " Why ?  "  

 " They are a younger nation .  "  

 " Do younger nations always win wars ?  "  

 " They are apt to for a time .  "  

 " Then what happens  ?  "  

 " They become older nations .  "  

 " You said you were not wise .  "  

 " Dear boy ,  that is not wisdom .  That is cynicism .  "  

 " It sounds very wise to me .  "  

 " Its not particularly .  I could quote you the ex -  
amples on the other side .  But it is not bad .  Have we 
finished the champagne ?  "  

 " Almost .  "  

 " Should we drink some more ?  Then I must dress .  "  

 " Perhaps wed better not now .  "  

 " You are sure you dont want more  ?  "  

 " Yes .  "  He stood up .  

 " I hope you will be very fortunate and very happy 
and very ,  very healthy .  "  

 " Thank you .  And I hope you will live forever .  "  

 " Thank you .  I have .  And if you ever become de -  
vout pray for me if I am dead .  I am asking several of 
my friends to do that .  I had expected to become de -  
vout myself but it has not come .  "  I thought he smiled 
sadly but I could not tell .  He was so old and his face 
was very wrinkled ,  so that a smile used so many lines 
that all gradations were lost .  

 " I might become very devout ,  "  I said .   " Anyway ,  I 
will pray for you .  "  

 " I had always expected to become devout .  All my 



A FAREWELL TO ARMS 281 

family died very devout .  But somehow it does not 
come/ 

 " Its too early .  "  

 " Maybe it is too late .  Perhaps I have outlived my 
religious feeling .  "  

 " My own comes only at night .  "  

 " Then too you are in love .  Do not forget that is a 
religious feeling .  "  

 " You believe so ?  "  

 " Of course .  "  He took a step toward the table .   " You 
were very kind to play .  "  

 " It was a great pleasure .  "  

 " We will walk up stairs together .  "  



CHAPTER XXXVI 

That night there was a storm and I woke to hear 
the rain lashing the window - panes .  It was coming in 
the open window .  Some one had knocked on the door .  
I went to the door very softly ,  not to disturb Catherine ,  
and opened it .  The barman stood there .  He wore his 
overcoat and carried his wet hat .  

 " Can I speak to you ,  Tenente ?  "  

 "  Whats the matter ?  "  

 " Its a very serious matter .  "  

I looked around .  The room was dark .  I saw the 
water on the floor from the window .   " Come in ,  "  I 
said .  I took him by the arm into the bathroom  ;  locked 
the door and put on the light .  I sat down on the edge 
of the bathtub .  

 " Whats the matter ,  Emilio ?  Are you in trouble ?  "  

 " No .  You are ,  Tenente .  "  

 " Yes ?  "  

 " They are going to arrest you in the morning .  "  

 " Yes ?  "  

 " I came to tell you .  I was out in the town and I 
heard them talking in a cafe .  "  

<<T ^ >) 

1 see .  

He stood there ,  his coat wet ,  holding his wet hat and 
said nothing .  

 " Why are they going to arrest me ?  "  

 " For something about the war .  "  

 " Do you know what ?  "  

 " No .  But I know that they know you were here be -  
fore as an officer and now you are here out of uniform .  
After this retreat they arrest everybody .  "  

I thought a minute .  

282 



A FAREWELL TO ARMS 283 

 " What time do they come to arrest me ?  "  

 " In the morning .  I dont know the time .  "  

 " What do you say to do ?  "  

He put his hat in the washbowl .  It was very wet 
and had been dripping on the floor .  

 " If you have nothing to fear an arrest is nothing .  
But it is always bad to be arrested  especially now .  "  

 " I dont want to be arrested .  "  

 " Then go to Switzerland .  "  

 " How ?  "  

 " In my boat .  "  

 " There is a storm ,  "  I said .  

 " The storm is over .  It is rough but you will be all 
right .  "  

 " When should we go ?  "  

 " Right away .  They might come to arrest you early 
in the morning .  "  

 " What about our bags ?  "  

 " Get them packed .  Get your lady dressed .  I will 
take care of them .  "  

 " Where will you be ?  "  

 " I will wait here .  I dont want any one to see me 
outside in the hall .  "  

I opened the door ,  closed it ,  and went into the bed -  
room .  Catherine was awake .  

 " What is it ,  darling ?  "  

 " Its all right ,  Cat ,  "  I said .   " Would you like to get 
dressed right away and go in a boat to Switzerland ?  "  

 " Would you ?  "  

 " No ,  "  I said .   " Id like to go back to bed .  "  

 " What is it about ?  "  

 " The barman says they are going to arrest me in the 
morning .  "  

 " Is the barman crazy ?  "  



284 A FAREWELL TO ARMS 

 " No .  "  

 " Then please hurry ,  darling ,  and get dressed so we 
can start .  "  She sat up on the side of the bed .  She 
was still sleepy .   " Is that the barman in the bathroom ?  "  

 " Yes .  "  

 " Then I wont wash .  Please look the other way ,  
darling ,  and Ill be dressed in just a minute .  "  

I saw her white back as she took off her nightgown 
and then I looked away because she wanted me to .  She 
was beginning to be a little big with the child and she 
did not want me to see her .  I dressed hearing the rain 
on the windows .  I did not have much to put in my bag .  

 " Theres plenty of room in my bag ,  Cat ,  if you need 
any .  "  

 " Im almost packed ,  "  she said .   " Darling ,  Im aw -  
fully stupid ,  but why is the barman in the bathroom ?  "  

 " Sh  hes waiting to take our bags down .  "  

 " Hes awfully nice .  "  

 " Hes an old friend ,  "  I said .   " I nearly sent him some 
pipe - tobacco once .  "  

I looked out the open window at the dark night .  I 
could not see the lake ,  only the dark and the rain but 
the wind was quieter .  

 " Im ready ,  darling ,  "  Catherine said .  

 " All right .  "  I went to the bathroom door .   " Here 
are the bags ,  Emilio ,  "  I said .  The barman took the two 
bags .  

 " Youre very good to help us ,  "  Catherine said .  

 " Thats nothing ,  lady ,  "  the barman said .   " Im glad 
to help you just so I dont get in trouble myself .  Lis -  
ten ,  "  he said to me .   " Ill take these out the servants 
stairs and to the boat .  You just go out as though you 
were going for a walk .  "  

 " Its a lovely night for a walk ,  "  Catherine said .  



A FAREWELL TO ARMS 285 

 " Its a bad night all right .  "  

 " Fin glad IVe an umbrella ,  "  Catherine said .  

We walked down the hall and down the wide thickly -  
carpeted stairs .  At the foot of the stairs by the door 
the porter sat behind his desk .  

He looked surprised at seeing us .  

 " Youre not going out ,  sir ?  "  he said .  

 " Yes ,  "  I said .   " Were going to see the storm along 
the lake .  "  

 " Havent you got an umbrella ,  sir ?  "  

 " No ,  "  I said .   " This coat sheds water .  "  

He looked at it doubtfully .   " Ill get you an umbrella ,  
sir ,  "  he said .  He went away and came back with a big 
umbrella .   " It is a little big ,  sir ,  "  he said .  I gave him 
a ten - lira note .   " Oh you are too good ,  sir .  Thank you 
very much ,  "  he said .  He held the door open and we 
went out into the rain .  He smiled at Catherine and she 
smiled at him .   " Dont stay out in the storm ,  "  he said .  
 " You will get wet ,  sir and lady .  "  He was only the sec -  
ond porter ,  and his English was still literally translated .  

 " Well be back ,  "  I said .  We walked down the path 
under the giant umbrella and out through the dark wet 
gardens to the road and across the road to the trellised 
pathway along the lake .  The wind was blowing off -  
shore now .  It was a cold ,  wet November wind and I 
knew it was snowing in the mountains .  We came along 
past the chained boats in the slips along the quay to 
where the barmans boat should be .  The water was 
dark against the stone .  The barman stepped out from 
beside the row of trees .  

 " The bags are in the boat ,  "  he said .  

 " I want to pay you for the boat ,  "  I said .  

 " How much money have you ?  "  

 " Not so much .  "  



286 A FAREWELL TO ARMS 

 " You send me the money later .  That will be all 
right .  "  

 " How much ?  "  

 " What you want .  "  

 " Tell me how much .  "  

 " If you get through send me five hundred francs .  
You wont mind that if you get through .  "  

 " All right .  "  

 " Here are sandwiches .  "  He handed me a package .  
 " Everything there was in the bar .  Its all here .  This 
is a bottle of brandy and a bottle of wine .  "  I put them 
in my bag .   " Let me pay you for those .  "  

 " All right ,  give me fifty lire .  "  

I gave it to him .   " The brandy is good ,  "  he said .  
 " You dont need to be afraid to give it to your lady .  
She better get in the boat .  "  He held the boat ,  it rising 
and falling against the stone wall and I helped Cathe -  
rine in .  She sat in the stern and pulled her cape around 
her .  

 " You know where to go ?  "  

 " Up the lake .  "  

 " You know how far ?  "  

 " Past Luino .  "  

 " Past Luino ,  Cannero ,  Cannobio ,  Tranzano .  You 
arent in Switzerland until you come to Brissago .  You 
have to pass Monte Tamara .  "  

 " What time is it ?  "  Catherine asked .  

 " Its only eleven oclock ,  "  I said .  

 " If you row all the time you ought to be there by 
seven oclock in the morning .  "  * 

 " Is it that far ?  "  

 " Its thirty - five kilometres .  "  

 " How should we go ?  In this rain we need a com -  
pass .  "  



A FAREWELL TO ARMS 287 

 " No .  Row to Isola Bella .  Then on the other side of 
Isola Madre go with the wind .  The wind will take you 
to Pallanza .  You will see the lights .  Then go up the 
shore .  "  

 " Maybe the wind will change .   ,  ,  

 " No/ he said .   " This wind will blow like this for 
three days .  It comes straight down from the Matta -  
rone .  There is a can to bail with .  "  

 " Let me pay you something for the boat now .  "  

 " No ,  Fd rather take a chance .  If you get through 
you pay me all .  you can .  "  

 " All right .  "  

 " I dont think youll get drowned .  "  

 " Thats good .  "  

 " Go with the wind up the lake .  "  

 " All right .  "  I stepped in the boat .  

 " Did you leave the money for the hotel ?  "  

 " Yes .  In an envelope in the room .  "  

 " All right .  Good luck ,  Tenente .  "  

 " Good luck .  We thank you many times .  "  

 " You wont thank me if you get drowned .  "  

 " What does he say ?  "  Catherine asked .  

 " He says good luck .  "  

 " Good luck ,  "  Catherine said .   " Thank you very 
much .  "  

 " Are you ready ?  "  

 " Yes .  "  

He bent down and shoved us off .  I dug at the water 
with the oars ,  then waved one hand .  The barman waved 
back deprecatingly .  I saw the lights of the hotel and 
rowed out ,  rowing straight out until they were out of 
sight .  There was quite a sea running but we were go -  
ing with the wind .  



CHAPTER XXXVII 

I rowed in the dark keeping the wind in my face .  
The rain had stopped and only came occasionally in 
gusts .  It was very dark ,  and the wind was cold .  I 
could see Catherine in the stern but I could not see the 
water where the blades of the oars dipped .  The oars 
were long and there were no leathers to keep them from 
slipping out .  I pulled ,  raised ,  leaned forward ,  found 
the water ,  dipped and pulled ,  rowing as easily as I 
could .  I did not feather the oars because the wind was 
with us .  I knew my hands would blister and I wanted 
to delay it as long as I could .  The boat was light and 
rowed easily .  I pulled it along in the dark water .  I 
could not see ,  and hoped we would soon come opposite 
Pallanza .  

We never saw Pallanza .  The wind was blowing up 
the lake and we passed the point that hides Pallanza in 
the dark and never saw the lights .  When we finally 
saw some lights much further up the lake and close to 
the shore it was Intra .  But for a long time we did not 
see any lights ,  nor did we see the shore but rowed stead -  
ily in the dark riding with the waves .  Sometimes I 
missed the water with the oars in the dark as a wave 
lifted the boat .  It was quite rough ;  but I kept on row -  
ing ,  until suddenly we were close ashore against a point 
of rock that rose beside us  ;  the waves striking against 
it ,  rushing high up ,  then falling back .  I pulled hard 
on the right oar and backed water with the other and 
we went out into the lake again  ;  the point was out of 
sight and we were going on up the lake .  

 " Were across the lake ,  "  I said to Catherine .  

a88 



A FAREWELL TO ARMS 289 

 " Werent we going to see Pallanza ?  "  

 " Weve missed it "  

 " How are you ,  darling ?  "  

 " Im fine .  "  

 " I could take the oars awhile .  "  

 " No ,  Im fine .  "  

 " Poor Ferguson ,  "  Catherine said .   " In the morning 
shell come to the hotel and find were gone .  "  

 " Im not worrying so much about that ,  "  I said ,   " as 
about getting into the Swiss part of the lake before its 
daylight and the custom guards see us .  "  

 " Is it a long way ?  "  

 " Its thirty some kilometres from here .  "  

I rowed all night .  Finally my hands were so sore I 
could hardly close them over the oars .  We were nearly 
smashed up on the shore several times .  I kept fairly 
close to the shore because I was afraid of getting lost 
on the lake and losing time .  Sometimes we were so 
close we could see a row of trees and the road along 
the shore with the mountains behind .  The rain stopped 
and the wind drove the clouds so that the moon shone 
through and looking back I could see the long dark 
point of Castagnola and the lake with white - caps and 
beyond ,  the moon on the high snow mountains .  Then 
the clouds came over the moon again and the moun -  
tains and the lake were gone ,  but it was much lighter 
than it had been before and we could see the shore .  I 
could see it too clearly and pulled out where they would 
not see the boat if there were custom guards along the 
Pallanza road .  When the moon came out again we 
could see white villas on the shore on the slopes of the 
mountain and the white road where it showed through 
the trees .  All the time I was rowing .  



290 A FAREWELL TO ARMS 

The lake widened and across it on the shore at the 
foot of the mountains on the other side we saw a few 
lights that should be Luino .  I saw a wedgelike gap be -  
tween the mountains on the other shore and I thought 
that must be Luino .  If it was we were making good 
time .  I pulled in the oars and lay back on the seat .  I 
was very ,  very tired of rowing .  My arms and shoulders 
and back ached and my hands were sore .  

 " I could hold the umbrella/ Catherine said .   " We 
could sail with that with the wind .  "  

 " Can you steer ?  "  

 " I think so .  "  

 " You take this oar and hold it under your arm close 
to the side of the boat and steer and F1I hold the um -  
brella .  "  I went back to the stern and showed her how 
to hold the oar .  I took the big umbrella the porter had 
given me and sat facing the bow and opened it .  It 
opened with a clap .  I held it on both sides ,  sitting 
astride the handle hooked over the seat .  The wind was 
full in it and I felt the boat suck forward while I held 
as hard as I could to the two edges .  It pulled hard .  
The boat was moving fast .  

 " Were going beautifully ,  "  Catherine said .  All I 
could see was umbrella ribs .  The umbrella strained and 
pulled and I felt us driving along with it .  I braced my 
feet and held back on it ,  then suddenly ,  it buckled ;  I 
felt a rib snap on my forehead ,  I tried to grab the top 
that was bending with the wind and the whole thing 
buckled and went inside out and I was astride the 
handle of an inside - out ,  ripped umbrella ,  where I had 
been holding a wind - filled pulling sail .  I unhooked the 
handle from the seat ,  laid the umbrella in the bow and 
went back to Catherine for the oar .  She was laughing .  
She took my hand and kept on laughing .  



A FAREWELL TO ARMS 291 

 " Whats the matter  ?  "  I took the oar .  

 " You looked so funny holding that thing .  "  

 " I suppose so .  "  

 " Dont be cross ,  darling .  It was awfully funny .  You 
looked about twenty feet broad and very affectionate 
holding the umbrella by the edges   "  she choked .  

 " Ill row .  "  

 " Take a rest and a drink .  Its a grand night and 
weve come a long way .  "  

 " I have to keep the boat out of the trough of the 
waves .  "  

 " Ill get you a drink .  Then rest a little while ,  dar -  
ling .  "  

I held the oars up and we sailed with them .  Cathe -  
rine was opening the bag .  She handed me the brandy 
bottle .  I pulled the cork with my pocket - knife and took 
a long drink .  It was smooth and hot and the heat went 
all through me and I felt warmed and cheerful .   " Its 
lovely brandy ,  "  I said .  The moon was under again but 
I could see the shore .  There seemed to be another point 
going out a long way ahead into the lake .  

 " Are you warm enough ,  Cat ?  "  

 " Im splendid .  Im a little stiff .  "  

 " Bail out that water and you can put your feet 
down .  "  

Then I rowed and listened to the oarlocks and the 
dip and scrape of the bailing tin under the stern seat .  

 " Would you give me the bailer ?  "  I said .   " I want a 
drink .  "  

 " Its awfully dirty .  "  

 " Thats all right .  Ill rinse it .  "  

I heard Catherine rinsing it over the side .  Then she 
handed it to me dipped full of water .  I was thirsty 
after the brandy and the water was icy cold ,  so cold it 



292 A FAREWELL TO ARMS 

made my teeth ache .  I looked toward the shore .  We 
were closer to the long point There were lights in the 
bay ahead .  

 " Thanks/ Isaid and handed back the tin pail .  

 " Youre ever so welcome/ Catherine said .   " Theres 
much more if you want it .  "  

 " Dont you want to eat something ?  "  

 " No .  Ill be hungry in a little while .  Well save it 
till then .  "  

 " All right .  "  

What looked like a point ahead was a long high 
headland .  I went further out in the lake to pass it .  
The lake was much narrower now .  The moon was out 
again and the guardia di Finanza could have seen our 
boat black on the water if they had been watching .  

 " How are you ,  Cat ?  "  I asked .  

 " Im all right .  Where are we ?  "  

 " I dont think we have more than about eight miles 
more .  "  

 " Thats a long way to row ,  you poor sweet .  Arent 
you dead ?  "  

 " No .  Im all right .  My hands are sore is all .  "  

We went on up the lake .  There was a break in the 
mountains on the right bank ,  a flattening - out with a 
low shore line that I thought must be Cannobio .  I 
stayed a long way out because it was from now on that 
we ran the most danger of meeting guardia .  There was 
a high dome - capped mountain on the other shore a way 
ahead .  I was tired .  It was no great distance to row 
but when you were out of condition it had been a long 
way .  I knew I had to pass that mountain and go up 
the lake at least five miles further before we would be 
in Swiss water .  The moon was almost down now but 



A FAREWELL TO ARMS 293 

before it went down the sky clouded over again and it 
was very dark .  I stayed well out in the lake ,  rowing 
awhile ,  then resting and holding the oars so that the 
wind struck the blades .  

 " Let me row awhile/ Catherine said .  

 " I dont think you ought to .  "  

 " Nonsense .  It would be good for me .  It would keep 
me from being too stiff/  

 " I dont think you should ,  Cat .  "  

 " Nonsense .  Rowing in moderation is very good for 
the pregnant lady/ 

 " All right ,  you row a little moderately .  Ill go back ,  
then you come up .  Hold on to both gunwales when you 
come up .  "  

I sat in the stern with my coat on and the collar 
turned up and watched Catherine row .  She rowed very 
well but the oars were too long and bothered her .  I 
opened the bag and ate a couple of sandwiches and took 
a drink of the brandy .  It made everything much better 
and I took another drink .  

 " Tell me when youre tired ,  "  I said .  Then a little 
later ,   " watch out the oar doesnt pop you in the tummy .  "  

 " If it did "   Catherine said between strokes   " life 
might be much simpler .  "  

I took another drink of the brandy .  

 " How are you going ?  "  

 " All right .  "  

 " Tell me when you want to stop .  "  

 " All right "  

I took another drink of the brandy ,  then took hold 
of the two gunwales of the boat and moved forward .  

 " No .  Im going beautifully .  "  

 " Go on back to the stern .  Ive had a grand rest .  "  



294 A FAREWELL TO ARMS 

For a while ,  with the brandy ,  I rowed easily and 
steadily .  Then I began to catch crabs and soon I was 
just chopping along again with a thin brown taste of 
bile from having rowed too hard after the brandy .  

 " Give me a drink of water ,  will you ?  "  I said .  

 " Thats easy ,  "  Catherine said .  

Before daylight it started to drizzle .  The wind was 
down or we were protected by mountains that bounded 
the curve the lake had made .  When I knew daylight 
was coming I settled down and rowed hard .  I did not 
know where we were and I wanted to get into the Swiss 
part of the lake .  When it was beginning to be daylight 
we were quite close to the shore .  I could see the rocky 
shore and the trees .  

 " Whats that ?  "  Catherine said .  I rested on the oars 
and listened .  It was a motor boat chugging out on the 
lake .  I pulled close up to the shore and lay quiet .  The 
chugging came closer  ;  then we saw the motor boat in 
the rain a little astern of us .  There were four guardia 
di finanza in the stern ,  their alpini hats pulled down ,  their 
cape collars turned up and their carbines slung across 
their backs .  They all looked sleepy so early in the morn -  
ing .  I could see the yellow on their hats and the yellow 
marks on their cape collars .  The motor boat chugged 
on and out of sight in the rain .  

I pulled out into the lake .  If we were that close to 
the border I did not want to be hailed by a sentry along 
the road .  I stayed out where I could just see the shore 
and rowed on for three quarters of an hour in the rain .  
We heard a motor boat once more but I kept quiet un -  
til the noise of the engine went away across the lake .  

 " I think were in Switzerland ,  Cat ,  "  I said .  

 " Really ?  "  

 " Theres no way to know until we see Swiss troops .  "  



A FAREWELL TO ARMS 295 

 " Or the Swiss navy .  "  

 " The Swiss navys no joke for us .  That last motor 
boat we heard was probably the Swiss navy .  "  

 " If were in Switzerland lets have a big breakfast .  
They have wonderful rolls and butter and jam in Swit -  
zerland .  "  

It was clear daylight now and a fine rain was falling .  
The wind was still blowing outside up the lake and we 
could see the tops of the white - caps going away from us 
and up the lake .  I was sure we were in Switzerland 
now .  There were many houses back in the trees from 
the shore and up the shore a way was a village with 
stone houses ,  some villas on the hills and a church .  I 
had been looking at the road that skirted the shore for 
guards but did not see any .  The road came quite close 
to the lake now and I saw a soldier coming out of a 
cafe on the road .  He wore a gray - green uniform and 
a helmet like the Germans .  He had a healthy - looking 
face and a little toothbrush mustache .  He looked at us .  

 " Wave to him ,  "  I said to Catherine .  She waved and 
the soldier smiled embarrassedly and gave a wave of his 
hand .  I eased up rowing .  We were passing the water -  
front of the village .  

 " We must be well inside the border ,  "  I said .  

 " We want to be sure ,  darling .  We dont want them 
to turn us back at the frontier .  "  

 " The frontier is a long way back .  I think this is the 
customs town .  Im pretty sure its Brissago .  "  

 " Wont there be Italians there ?  There are always 
both sides at a customs town .  "  

 " Not in war - time .  I dont think they let the Italians 
cross the frontier .  "  

It was a nice - looking little town .  There were many 



296 A FAREWELL TO ARMS 

fishing boats along the quay and nets were spread on 
racks .  There was a fine November rain falling but it 
looked cheerful and clean even with the rain .  

 " Should we land then and have breakfast  ?  "  

 " All right .  "  

I pulled hard on the left oar and came in close ,  then 
straightened out when we were close to the quay and 
brought the boat alongside .  I pulled in the oars ,  took 
hold of an iron ring ,  stepped up on the wet stone and 
was in Switzerland .  I tied the boat and held my hand 
down to Catherine .  

 " Come on up ,  Cat .  Its a grand feeling .  "  

 " What about the bags ?  "  

 " Leave them in the boat .  "  

Catherine stepped up and we were in Switzerland to -  
gether .  

 " What a lovely country/ she said .  

 " Isnt it grand ?  "  

 " Lets go and have breakfast  !  "  

 " Isnt it a grand country ?  I love the way it feels 
under my shoes .  "  

 " Im so stiff I cant feel it very well .  But it feels like 
a splendid country .  Darling ,  do you realize were here 
and out of that bloody place ?  "  

 " I do .  I really do .  Ive never realized anything be -  
fore .  "  

 " Look at the houses .  Isnt this a fine square ?  
Theres a place we can get breakfast .  "  

 " Isnt the rain fine ?  They never had rain like this in 
Italy .  Its cheerful rain .  "  

 " And were here ,  darling !  Do you realize were 
here ?  "  

We went inside the cafe and sat down at a clean 



A FAREWELL TO ARMS 297 

wooden table .  We were cockeyed excited .  A splendid 
clean - looking woman with an apron came and asked us 
what we wanted .  

 " Rolls and jam and coffee ,  "  Catherine said .  

 " Im sorry ,  we havent any rolls in war - time .  "  

 " Bread then .  "  

 " I can make you some toast .  "  

 " All right .  "  

 " I want some eggs fried too .  "  

 " How many eggs for the gentleman ?  "  

 " Three .  "  

 " Take four ,  darling .  "  

 " Four eggs .  "  

The woman went away .  I kissed Catherine and held 
her hand very tight .  We looked at each other and at 
the cafe .  

 " Darling ,  darling ,  isnt it lovely ?  "  

 " Its grand ,  "  I said .  

 " I dont mind there not being rolls ,  "  Catherine said .  
 " I thought about them all night .  But I dont mind it .  
I dont mind it at all .  "  

 " I suppose pretty soon they will arrest us .  "  

 " Never mind ,  darling .  Well have breakfast first .  
You wont mind being arrested after breakfast .  And 
then theres nothing they can do to us .  Were British 
and American citizens in good standing .  "  

 " You have a passport ,  havent you ?  "  

 " Of course .  Oh lets not talk about it .  Lets be 
happy .  "  

 " I couldnt be any happier ,  "  I said .  A fat gray cat 
with a tail that lifted like a plume crossed the floor to 
our table and curved against my leg to purr each time 
she rubbed .  I reached down and stroked her .  Cath -  



298 A FAREWELL TO ARMS 

erine smiled at me very happily .   " Here comes the 
coffee/ she said .  

They arrested us after breakfast .  We took a little 
walk through the village then went down to the quay 
to get our bags .  A soldier was standing guard over the 
boat .  

 " Is this your boat ?  "  

 " Yes .  "   

 " Where do you come from ?  "  

 " Up the lake .  "  

 " Then I have to ask you to come with me .  "  

 " How about the bags ?  "  

 " You can carry the bags .  "  

I carried the bags and Catherine walked beside me 
and the soldier walked along behind us to the old cus -  
tom house .  In the custom house a lieutenant ,  very thin 
and military ,  questioned us .  

 " What nationality are you ?  "  

 " American and British .  "  

 " Let me see your passports .  "  

I gave him mine and Catherine got hers out of her 
handbag .  

He examined them for a long time .  

 " Why do you enter Switzerland this way in a boat ?  "  

 " I am a sportsman ,  "  I said .   " Rowing is my great 
sport .  I always row when I get a chance .  "  

 " Why do you come here ?  "  

 " For the winter sport .  We are tourists and we want 
to do the winter sport .  "  

 " This is no place for winter sport .  "  

 " We know it .  We want to go where they have the 
winter sport .  "  

 " What have you been doing in Italy ?  "  



A FAREWELL TO ARMS 299 

 " I have been studying architecture .  My cousin has 
been studying art .  "  

 " Why do you leave there ?  "  

 " We want to do the winter sport .  With the war go -  
ing on you cannot study architecture .  "  

 " You will please stay where you are ,  "  the lieutenant 
said .  He went back into the building with our pass -  
ports .  

 " Youre splendid ,  darling ,  "  Catherine said .   " Keep 
on the same track .  You want to do the winter sport "  

 " Do you know anything about art ?  "  

 " Rubens ,  "  said Catherine .  

 " Large and fat ,  "  I said .  

 " Titian ,  "  Catherine said .  

 " Titian - haired ,  "  I said .   " How about Mantegna ?  "  

 " Dont ask hard ones ,  "  Catherine said .   " I know him 
though  very bitter .  "  

 " Very bitter ,  "  I said .   " Lots of nail holes .  "  

 " You see Ill make you a fine wife ,  "  Catherine said .  
 " Ill be able to talk art with your customers .  "  

 " Here he comes ,  "  I said .  The thin lieutenant came 
down the length of the custom house ,  holding our pass -  
ports .  

 " I will have to send you into Locarno ,  "  he said .  
 " You can get a carriage and a soldier will go in with 
you .  "  

 " All right ,  "  I said .   " What about the boat ?  "  

 " The boat is confiscated .  What have you in those 
bags ?  "  

He went all through the two bags and held up the 
quarter - bottle of brandy .   " Would you join me in a 
drink ?  "  I asked .  

 " No thank you .  "  He straightened up .   " How much 
money have you ?  "  



300 A FAREWELL TO ARMS 

 " Twenty - five hundred lire .  "  

He was favorably impressed .   " How much has your 
cousin  ?  "  

Catherine had a little over twelve hundred lire .  The 
lieutenant was pleased .  His attitude toward us became 
less haughty .  

 " If you are going for winter sports/ he said ,   " Wen -  
gen is the place .  My father has a very fine hotel at 
Wengen .  It is open all the time .  "  

 " Thats splendid ,  "  I said .   " Could you give me the 
name  ?  "  

 " I will write it on a card .  "  He handed me the card 
very politely .  

 " The soldier will take you in to Locarno .  He will 
keep your passports .  I regret this but it is necessary .  
I have good hopes they will give you a visa or a police 
permit at Locarno .  "  

He handed the two passports to the soldier and carry -  
ing the bags we started into the village to order a car -  
riage .   " Hi ,  "  the lieutenant called to the soldier .  He 
said something in a German dialect to him .  The sol -  
dier slung his rifle on his back and picked up the bags .  

 " Its a great country ,  "  I said to Catherine .  

 " Its so practical .  "  

 " Thank you very much ,  "  I said to the lieutenant .  
He waved his hand .  

 " Service !  "  he said .  We followed our guard into the 
village .  

We drove to Locarno in a carriage with the soldier 
sitting on the front seat with the driver .  At Locarno 
we did not have a bad time .  They questioned us but 
they were polite because we had passports and money .  
I do not think they believed a word of the story and I 
thought it was silly but it was like a law - court .  You 



A FAREWELL TO ARMS 301 

did not want something reasonable ,  you wanted some -  
thing technical and then stuck to it without explana -  
tions .  But we had passports and we would spend the 
money .  So they gave us provisional visas .  At any time 
this visa might be withdrawn .  We were to report to 
the police wherever we went .  

Could we go wherever we wanted  ?  Yes .  Where did 
we want to go ?  

 " Where do you want to go ,  Cat ?  "  

 " Montreux .  "  

 " It is a very nice place ,  "  the official said .   " I think 
you will like that place .  "  

 " Here at Locarno is a very nice place ,  "  another of -  
ficial said .   " I am sure you would like it here very 
much at Locarno .  Locarno is a very attractive place .  "  

 " We would like some place where there is winter 
sport .  "  

 " There is no winter sport at Montreux .  "  

 " I beg your pardon ,  "  the other official said .   " I come 
from Montreux .  There is very certainly winter sport 
on the Montreux Oberland Bernois railway .  It would 
be false for you to deny that .  "  

 " I do not deny it .  I simply said there is no winter 
sport at Montreux .  "  

 " I question that ,  "  the other official said .   " I question 
that statement .  "  

 " I hold to that statement .  "  

 " I question that statement .  I myself have luge - ed 
into the streets of Montreux .  I have done it not once 
but several times .  Luge - ing is certainly winter sport .  "  

The other official turned to me .  

 " Is luge - ing your idea of winter sport ,  sir ?  I tell you 
you would be very comfortable here in Locarno .  You 



3 o2 A FAREWELL TO ARMS 

would find the climate healthy ,  you would find the en -  
virons attractive .  You would like it very much .  "  

 " The gentleman has expressed a wish to go to Mon -  
treux .  "  

 " What is luge - ing ?  "  I asked .  

 " You see he has never even heard of luge - ing !  "  

That meant a great deal to the second official .  He 
was pleased by that .  

 " Luge - ing ,  "  said the first official ,   " is tobogganing .  "  

 " I beg to differ ,  "  the other official shook his head .  
 " I must differ again .  The toboggan is very different 
from the luge .  The toboggan is constructed in Canada 
of flat laths .  The luge is a common sled with runners .  
Accuracy means something .  "  

 " Couldnt we toboggan ?  "  I asked .  

 " Of course you could toboggan ,  "  the first official 
said .   " You could toboggan very well .  Excellent Cana -  
dian toboggans are sold in Montreux .  Ochs Brothers 
sell toboggans .  They import their own toboggans .  "  

The second official turned away .   " Tobogganing ,  "  he 
said ,   " requires a special piste .  You could not toboggan 
into the streets of Montreux .  Where are you stopping 
here ?  "  

 " We dont know ,  "  I said .   " We just drove in from 
Brissago .  The carriage is outside .  "  

 " You make no mistake in going to Montreux ,  "  the 
first official said .   " You will find the climate delightful 
and beautiful .  You will have no distance to go for 
winter sport .  "  

 " If you really want winter sport ,  "  the second official 
said ,   " you will go to the Engadine or to Murren .  I 
must protest against your being advised to go to Mon -  
treux for the winter sport .  "  

 " At Les Avants above Montreux there is excellent 



A FAREWELL TO ARMS 303 

winter sport of every sort .  "  The champion of Mon -  
treux glared at his colleague .  

 " Gentlemen ,  "  I said ,   " I am afraid we must go .  My 
cousin is very tired .  We will go tentatively to Mon -  
treux .  "  

 " I congratulate you ,  "  the first official shook my hand .  

 " I believe that you will regret leaving Locarno ,  "  the 
second official said .   " At any rate you will report to the 
police at Montreux .  "  

 " There will be no unpleasantness with the police ,  "  
the first official assured me .   " You will find all the in -  
habitants extremely courteous and friendly .  "  

 " Thank you both very much ,  "  I said .   " We appre -  
ciate your advice very much .  "  

 " Good - by ,  "  Catherine said .   " Thank you both very 
much .  "  

They bowed us to the door ,  the champion of Locarno 
a little coldly .  We went down the steps and into the 
carriage .  

 " My God ,  darling ,  "  Catherine said .   " Couldnt we 
have gotten away any sooner ?  "  I gave the name of a 
hotel one of the officials had recommended to the driver .  
He picked up the reins .  

 " Youve forgotten the army ,  "  Catherine said .  The 
soldier was standing by the carriage .  I gave him a ten -  
lira note .   " I have no Swiss money yet ,  "  I said .  He 
thanked me ,  saluted and went off .  The carriage started 
and we drove to the hotel .  

 " How did you happen to pick out Montreux ?  "  I 
asked Catherine .   " Do you really want to go there ?  "  

 " It was the first place I could think of ,  "  she said .  
 " Its not a bad place .  We can find some place up in the 
mountains .  "  

 " Are you sleepy ?  "  



3 o 4 A FAREWELL TO ARMS 

 " Im asleep right now .  "  

 " Well get a good sleep .  Poor Cat ,  you had a long 
bad night .  "  

 " I had a lovely time ,  "  Catherine said .   " Especially 
when you sailed with the umbrella .  "  

 " Can you realize were in Switzerland ?  "  

 " No ,  Im afraid Ill wake up and it wont be true .  "  

 " I am too .  "  

 " It is true ,  isnt it ,  darling ?  Im not just driving 
down to the stazione in Milan to see you off .  "  

 " I hope not .  "  

 " Dont say that .  It frightens me .  Maybe thats 
where were going .  "  

 " Im so groggy I dont know ,  "  I said .  

 " Let me see your hands .  "  

I put them out .  They were both blistered raw .  

 " Theres no hole in my side ,  "  I said .  

 " Dont be sacrilegious .  "  

I felt very tired and vague in the head .  The exhil -  
aration was all gone .  The carriage was going along the 
street .  

 " Poor hands ,  "  Catherine said .  

 " Dont touch them ,  "  I said .   " By God I dont know 
where we are .  Where are we going ,  driver ?  "  The 
driver stopped his horse .  

 " To the Hotel Metropole .  Dont you want to go 
there ?  "  

 " Yes ,  "  I said .   " Its all right ,  Cat .  "  

 " Its all right ,  darling .  Dont be upset .  Well get a 
good sleep and you wont feel groggy to - morrow .  "  

 " I get pretty groggy ,  "  I said .   " Its like a comic 
opera to - day .  Maybe Im hungry .  "  

 " Youre just tired ,  darling .  Youll be fine .  "  The 



A FAREWELL TO ARMS 305 

carriage pulled up before the hotel .  Some one came out 
to take our bags .  

 " I feel all right/ I said .  We were down on the 
pavement going into the hotel .  

 " I know youll be all right .  Youre just tired .  
Youve been up a long time .  "  

 " Anyhow were here .  "  

 " Yes ,  were really here .  "  

We followed the boy with the bags into the hotel .  



BOOK V ,  



CHAPTER XXXVIII 

That fall the snow came very late .  We lived in a 
brown wooden house in the pine trees on the side of the 
mountain and at night there was frost so that there 
was thin ice over the water in the two pitchers on the 
dresser in the morning .  Mrs .  Guttingen came into the 
room early in the morning to shut the windows and 
started a fire in the tall porcelain stove .  The pine wood 
crackled and sparked and then the fire roared in the 
stove and the second time Mrs .  Guttingen came into the 
room she brought big chunks of wood for the fire and 
a pitcher of hot water .  When the room was warm she 
brought in breakfast .  Sitting up in bed eating break -  
fast we could see the lake and the mountains across the 
lake on the French side .  There was snow on the tops 
of the mountains and the lake was a gray steel - blue .  

Outside ,  in front of the chalet a road went up the 
mountain .  The wheel ruts and ridges were iron hard 
with the frost ,  and the road climbed steadily through 
the forest and up and around the mountain to where 
there were meadows ,  and barns and cabins in the 
meadows at the edge of the woods looking across the 
valley .  The valley was deep and there was a stream at 
the bottom that flowed down into the lake and when 
the wind blew across the valley you could hear the 
stream in the rocks .  

Sometimes we went off the road and on a path 
through the pine forest .  The floor of the forest was 
soft to walk on  ;  the frost did not harden it as it did the 
road .  But we did not mind the hardness of the road 
because we had nails in the soles and heels of our boots 

309 



3 io A FAREWELL TO ARMS 

and the heel nails bit on the frozen ruts and with nailed 
boots it was good walking on the road and invigorat -  
ing .  But it was lovely walking in the woods .  

In front of the house where we lived the mountain 
went down steeply to the little plain along the lake and 
we sat on the porch of the house in the sun and saw 
the winding of the road down the mountain - side and 
the terraced vineyards on the side of the lower moun -  
tain ,  the vines all dead now for the winter and the fields 
divided by stone walls ,  and below the vineyards the 
houses of the town on the narrow plain along the lake 
shore .  There was an island with two trees on the lake 
and the trees looked like the double sails of a fishing -  
boat .  The mountains were sharp and steep on the other 
side of the lake and down at the end of the lake was 
the plain of the Rhone Valley flat between the two 
ranges of mountains ;  and up the valley where the 
mountains cut it off was the Dent du Midi .  It was a 
high snowy mountain and it dominated the valley but 
it was so far away that it did not make a shadow .  

When the sun was bright we ate lunch on the porch 
but the rest of the time we ate upstairs in a small room 
with plain wooden walls and a big st<Mt in the corner .  
We bought books and magazines in the town and a 
copy of  " Hoyle "  and learned many two - handed card 
games .  The small room with the stove was our living -  
room .  There were two comfortable chairs and a table 
for books and magazines and we played cards on the 
dining - table when it was cleared away .  Mr .  and Mrs .  
Guttingen lived downstairs and we would hear them 
talking sometimes in the evening and they were very 
happy together too .  He had been a headwaiter and she 
had worked as maid in the same hotel and they had 
saved their money to buy this place .  They had a son 



A FAREWELL TO ARMS 311 

who was studying to be a headwaiter .  He was at a 
hotel in Zurich .  Downstairs there was a parlor where 
they sold wine and beer ,  and sometimes in the evening 
we would hear carts stop outside on the road and men 
come up the steps to go in the parlor to drink wine .  

There was a box of wood in the hall outside the liv -  
ing - room and I kept up the fire from it .  But we did 
not stay up very late .  We went to bed in the dark in 
the big bedroom and when I was undressed I opened 
the windows and saw the night and the cold stars and 
the pine trees below the window and then got into bed 
as fast as I could .  It was lovely in bed with the air so 
cold and clear and the night outside the window .  We 
slept well and if I woke in the night I knew it was from 
only one cause and I would shift the feather bed over ,  
very softly so that Catherine would not be wakened 
and then go back to sleep again ,  warm and with the 
new lightness of thin covers .  The war seemed as far 
away as the football games of some one elses college .  
But I knew from the papers that they were still fight -  
ing in the mountains because the snow would not come .  

Sometimes we walked down the mountain into Mon -  
treux .  There was a path went down the mountain but 
it was steep and so usually we took the road and walked 
down on the wide hard road between fields and then 
below between the stone walls of the vineyards and on 
down between the houses of the villages along the way .  
There were three villages  ;  Chernex ,  Fontanivent ,  and 
the other I forget .  Then along the road we passed an 
old square - built stone chateau on a ledge on the side of 
the mountain - side with the terraced fields of vines ,  
each vine tied to a stick to hold it up ,  the vines dry and 
brown and the earth ready for the snow and the lake 



3 i2 A FAREWELL TO ARMS 

down below flat and gray as steel The road went down 
a long grade below the chateau and then turned to the 
right and went down very steeply and paved with cob -  
bles ,  into Montreux .  

We did not know any one in Montreux .  We walked 
along beside the lake and saw the swans and the many 
gulls and terns that flew up when you came close and 
screamed while they looked down at the water .  Out on 
the lake there were flocks of grebes ,  small and dark ,  
and leaving trails in the water when they swam .  In 
the town we walked along the main street and looked 
in the windows of the shops .  There were many big 
hotels that were closed but most of the shops were open 
and the people were very glad to see us .  There was a 
fine coiffeurs place where Catherine went to have her 
hair done .  The woman who ran it was very cheerful 
and the only person we knew in Montreux .  While 
Catherine was there I went up to a beer place and 
drank dark Munich beer and read the papers .  I read 
the Corriere delta Sera and the English and American 
papers from Paris .  All the advertisements were blacked 
out ,  supposedly to prevent communication in that way 
with the enemy .  The papers were bad reading .  Every -  
thing was going very badly everywhere .  I sat back in 
the corner with a heavy mug of dark beer and an opened 
glazed - paper package of pretzels and ate the pretzels for 
the salty flavor and the good way they made the beer 
taste and read about disaster .  I thought Catherine 
would come by but she did not come ,  so I hung the pa -  
pers back on the rack ,  paid for my beer and went up 
the street to look for her .  The day was cold and dark 
and wintry and the stone of the houses looked cold .  
Catherine was still in the hair - dressers shop .  The 
woman was waving her hair .  I sat in the little booth 



A FAREWELL TO ARMS 313 

and watched .  It was exciting to watch and Catherine 
smiled and talked to me and my voice was a little thick 
from being excited .  The tongs made a pleasant click -  
ing sound and I could see Catherine in three mirrors 
and it was pleasant and warm in the booth .  Then the 
woman put up Catherines hair ,  and Catherine looked 
in the mirror and changed it a little ,  taking out and 
putting in pins ;  then stood up .   " Im sorry to have 
taken such a long time .  "  

 " Monsieur was very interested .  Were you not ,  mon -  
sieur  ?  "  the woman smiled .  

 " Yes ,  "  I said .  

We went out and up the street .  It was cold and win -  
try and the wind was blowing .   " Oh ,  darling ,  I love 
you so ,  "  I said .  

 " Dont we have a fine time ?  "  Catherine said .   " Look .  
Lets go some place and have beer instead of tea .  Its 
very good for young Catherine .  It keeps her small .  "  

 " Young Catherine ,  "  I said .   " That loafer .  "  

 " Shes been very good ,  "  Catherine said .   " She makes 
very little trouble .  The doctor says beer will be good 
for me and keep her small .  "  

 " If you keep her small enough and shes a boy ,  may -  
be he will be a jockey .  "  

 " I suppose if we really have this child we ought to 
get married ,  "  Catherine said .  We were in the beer 
place at the corner table .  It was getting dark outside .  
It was still early but the day was dark and the dusk was 
coming early .  

 " Lets get married now ,  "  I said .  

 " No ,  "  Catherine said .   " Its too embarrassing now .  
I show too plainly .  I wont go before any one and be 
married in this state .  "  

 " I wish wed gotten married .  "  



3i 4 A FAREWELL TO ARMS 

 " I suppose it would have been better .  But when 
could we ,  darling ?  "  

 " I dont know .  "  

 " I know one thing .  Im not going to be married in 
this splendid matronly state .  "  

 " Youre not matronly .  "  

 " Oh yes ,  I am ,  darling .  The hairdresser asked me 
if this was our first .  I lied and said no ,  we had two 
boys and two girls .  "  

 " When will we be married ?  "  

 " Any time after Im thin again .  We want to have a 
splendid wedding with every one thinking what a hand -  
some young couple .  "  

 " And youre not worried ?  "  

 " Darling ,  why should I be worried ?  The only time I 
ever felt badly was when I felt like a whore in Milan 
and that only lasted seven minutes and besides it was 
the room furnishings .  Dont I make you a good wife ?  "  

 " Youre a lovely wife .  "  

 " Then dont be too technical ,  darling .  Ill marry 
you as soon as Im thin again .  "  

 " All right .  "  

 " Do you think I ought to drink another beer ?  The 
doctor said I was rather narrow in the hips and its all 
for the best if we keep young Catherine small .  "  

 " What else did he say ?  "  I was worried .  

 " Nothing .  I have a wonderful blood - pressure ,  dar -  
ling .  He admired my blood - pressure greatly .  "  

 " What did he say about you being too narrow in the 
hips ?  "  

 " Nothing .  Nothing at all .  He said I shouldnt 
ski .  "  

 " Quite right .  "  

 " He said it was too late to start if Id never done it 



A FAREWELL TO ARMS 315 

before .  He said I could ski if I wouldn  ,  t fall down .  "  

 " Hes just a big - hearted joker .  "  

 " Really he was very nice .  Well have him when the 
baby comes .  "  

 " Did you ask him if you ought to get married ?  "  

 " No .  I told him wed been married four years .  You 
see ,  darling ,  if I marry you Ill be an American and 
any time were married under American law the child 
is legitimate .  "  

 " Where did you find that out ?  "  

 " In the New York World Almanac in the library .  "  

 " Youre a grand girl .  "  

 " Ill be very glad to be an American and well go to 
America wont we ,  darling ?  I want to see Niagara 
Falls . 7 

 " Youre a fine girl .  "  

 " Theres something else I want to see but I cant 
remember it .  "  

 " The stockyards ?  "  

 " No .  I cant remember it .  "  

 " The Woolworth building ?  "  

 " No .  "  

 " The Grand Canyon ?  "  

 " No .  But Id like to see that .  "  

 " What was it ?  "  

 " The Golden Gate !  Thats what I want to see .  
Where is the Golden Gate ?  "  

 " San Francisco .  "  

 " Then lets go there .  I want to see San Francisco 
anyway .  "  

 " All right .  Well go there .  "  

 " Now lets go up the mountain .  Should we ?  Can 
we get the M .  O .  B .   ?  "  

 " Theres a train a little after five .  "  



3 i6 A FAREWELL TO ARMS 

 " Lets get that .  "  

 " All right .  Ill drink one more beer first .  "  

When we went out to go up the street and climb the 
stairs to the station it was very cold .  A cold wind was 
coming down the Rhone valley .  There were lights in 
the shop windows and we climbed the steep stone stair -  
way to the upper street ,  then up another stairs to the 
station .  The electric train was there waiting ,  all the 
lights on .  There was a dial that showed when it left .  
The clock hands pointed to ten minutes after five .  I 
looked at the station clock .  It was five minutes after .  
As we got on board I saw the motorman and conductor 
coming out of the station wine - shop .  We sat down and 
opened the window .  The train was electrically heated 
and stuffy but fresh cold air came in through the win -  
dow .  

 " Are you tired ,  Cat ?  "  I asked .  

 " No .  I feel splendid .  "  

 " It isnt a long ride .  "  

 " I like the ride ,  "  she said .   " Dont worry about me ,  
darling .  I feel fine .  "  

Snow did not come until three days before Christ -  
mas .  We woke one morning and it was snowing .  We 
stayed in bed with the fire roaring in the stove and 
watched the snow fall .  Mrs .  Guttingen took away the 
breakfast trays and put more wood in the stove .  It 
was a big snow storm .  She said it had started about 
midnight .  I went to the window and looked out but 
could not see across the road .  It was blowing and 
snowing wildly .  I went back to bed and we lay and 
talked .  

 " I wish I could ski ,  "  Catherine said .   " Its rotten not 
to be able to ski .  "  



A FAREWELL TO ARMS 317 

 " Well get a bobsled and come down the road .  
Thats no worse for you than riding in a car .  "  

 " Wont it be rough ?  "  

 " We can see .  "  

 " I hope it wont be too rough .  "  

 " After a while well take a walk in the snow .  "  

 " Before lunch ,  "  Catherine said ,   " so well have a 
good appetite .  "  

 " Im always hungry .  "  

 " So am I .  "  

We went out in the snow but it was drifted so that 
we could not walk far .  I went ahead and made a trail 
down to the station but when we reached there we had 
gone far enough .  The snow was blowing so we could 
hardly see and we went into the little inn by the station 
and swept each other off with a broom and sat on a 
bench and had vermouths .  

 " It is a big storm ,  "  the barmaid said .  

 " Yes .  "  

 " The snow is very late this year .  "  

 " Yes .  "  

 " Could I eat a chocolate bar ?  "  Catherine asked .   " Or 
is it too close to lunch  ?  Im always hungry .  "  

 " Go on and eat one ,  "  I said .  

 " Ill take one with filberts ,  "  Catherine said .  

 " They are very good ,  "  the girl said ,   " I like them the 
best .  "  

 " Ill have another vermouth ,  "  I said .  

When we came out to start back up the road our 
track was filled in by the snow .  There were only faint 
indentations where the holes had been .  The snow blew 
in our faces so we could hardly see .  We brushed off 
and went in to have lunch .  Mr .  Guttingen served the 
lunch .  



318 A FAREWELL TO ARMS 

 " To - morrow there will be skiing ,  "  he said .   " Do 
you ski ,  Mr .  Henry  ?  "  

 " No .  But I want to learn .  "  

 " You will learn very easily .  My boy will be here 
for Christmas and he will teach you .  "  

 " Thats fine .  When does he come ?  "  

 " To - morrow night .  "  

When we were sitting by the stove in the little room 
after lunch looking out the window at the snow coming 
down Catherine said ,   " Wouldnt you like to go on a 
trip somewhere by yourself ,  darling ,  and be with men 
and ski ?  "  

 " No .  Why should I ?  "  

 " I should think sometimes you would want to see 
other people besides me .  "  

 " Do you want to see other people ?  "  

 " No .  "  

 " Neither do I .  "  

 " I know .  But youre different .  Im having a child 
and that makes me contented not to do anything .  I 
know Im awfully stupid now and I talk too much and 
I think you ought to get away so you wont be tired of 
me .  

 " Do you want me to go away ?  "  

 " No .  I want you to stay .  "  

 " Thats what Im going to do .  "  

 " Come over here ,  "  she said .   " I want to feel the 
bump on your head .  Its a big bump .  "  She ran her 
finger over it .   " Darling ,  would you like to grow a 
beard ?  "  

 " Would you like me to ?  "  

 " It might be fun .  Id like to see you with a beard .  "  

 " All right .  Ill grow one .  Ill start now this minute .  
Its a good idea .  It will give me something to do .  "  



A FAREWELL TO ARMS 319 

 " Are you worried because you havent anything to 
do ?  "  

 " No .  I like it .  I have a fine life .  Dont you ?  "  

 " I have a lovely life .  But I was afraid because Im 
big now that maybe I was a bore to you .  "  

 " Oh ,  Cat .  You dont know how crazy I am about 
you .  "  

 " This way ?  "  

 " Just the way you are .  I have a fine time .  Dont we 
have a good life ?  "  

 " I do ,  but I thought maybe you were restless .  "  

 " No .  Sometimes I wonder about the front and 
about people I know but I dont worry .  I dont think 
about anything much .  "  

 " Who do you wonder about ?  "  

 " About Rinaldi and the priest and lots of people I 
know .  But I dont think about them much .  I dont 
want to think about the war .  Im through with it .  "  

 " What are you thinking about now ?  "  

 " Nothing .  "  

 " Yes you were .  Tell me .  "  

 " I was wondering whether Rinaldi had the syphilis .  "  

 " Was that all ?  "  

 " Yes .  "  

 " Has he the syphilis ?  "  

 " I dont know .  "  

 " Im glad you havent .  Did you ever have anything 
like that ?  "  

 " I had gonorrhea .  "  

 " I dont want to hear about it .  Was it very painful ,  
darling ?  "  

 " Very .  "  

 " I wish Id had it .  "  



3 2o A FAREWELL TO ARMS 

 " No you dont "  

 " I do .  I wish Id had it to be like you .  I wish Id 
stayed with all your girls so I could make fun of them 
to you .  "  

 " Thats a pretty picture .  "  

 " Its not a pretty picture you having gonorrhea .  "  

 " I know it .  Look at it snow now ,  "  

 " Fd rather look at you .  Darling ,  why dont you let 
your hair grow ?  "  

 " How grow ?  "  

 " Just grow a little longer .  "  

 " Its long enough now .  "  

 " No ,  let it grow a little longer and I could cut mine 
and wed be just alike only one of us blonde and one 
of us dark .  "  

 " I wouldnt let you cut yours .  "  

 " It would be fun .  Im tired of it .  Its an awful 
nuisance in the bed at night .  "  

 " I like it .  "  

 " Wouldnt you like it short ?  "  

 " I might .  I like it the way it is .  "  

 " It might be nice short .  Then wed both be alike .  
Oh ,  darling ,  I want you so much I want to be you too .  "  

 " You are .  Were the same one .  "  

 " I know it .  At night we are .  "  

 " The nights are grand .  "  

 " I want us to be all mixed up .  I dont want you to 
go away .  I just said that .  You go if you want to .  
But hurry right back .  Why ,  darling ,  I dont live at all 
when Im not with you .  "  

 " I wont ever go away ,  "  I said .   " Im no good when 
youre not there .  I havent any life at all any more .  "  

 " I want you to have a life .  I want you to have a fine 
life .  But well have it together ,  wont we ?  "  



A FAREWELL TO ARMS 321 

 " And now do you want me to stop growing my 
beard or let it go on ?  "  

 " Go on .  Grow it .  It will be exciting .  Maybe it 
will be done for New Years .  "  

 " Now do you want to play chess ?  "  

 " Id rather play with you .  "  

 " No .  Lets play chess .  "  

 " And afterward well play ?  "  

 " Yes .  "  

 " All right .  "  

I got out the chess - board and arranged the pieces .  
It was still snowing hard outside .  

One time in the night I woke up and knew that 
Catherine was awake too .  The moon was shining in 
the window and made shadows on the bed from the 
bars on the window - panes .  

 " Are you awake ,  sweetheart ?  "  

 " Yes .  Cant you sleep ?  "  

 " I just woke up thinking about how I was nearly 
crazy when I first met you .  Do you remember ?  "  

 " You were just a little crazy .  "  

 " Im never that way any more .  Im grand now .  
You say grand so sweetly .  Say grand .  "  

 " Grand .  "  

 " Oh ,  youre sweet .  And Im not crazy now .  Im 
just very ,  very ,  very happy .  "  

 " Go on to sleep ,  "  I said .  

 " All right .  Lets go to sleep at exactly the same 
moment .  "  

 " All right .  "  

But we did not .  I was awake for quite a long time 
thinking about things and watching Catherine sleeping ,  
the moonlight on her face .  Then I went to sleep ,  too .  



CHAPTER XXXIX 

By the middle of January I had a beard and the 
winter had settled into bright cold days and hard cold 
nights .  We could walk on the roads again .  The snow 
was packed hard and smooth by the hay - sleds and wood -  
sledges and the logs that were hauled down the moun -  
tain .  The snow lay over all the country ,  down almost 
to Montreux .  The mountains on the other side of the 
lake were all white and the plain of the Rhone valley 
was covered .  We took long walks on the other side of 
the mountain to the Bains de TAlliaz .  Catherine wore 
hobnailed boots and a cape and carried a stick with a 
sharp steel point .  She did not look big with the cape 
and we would not walk too fast but stopped and sat 
on logs by the roadside to rest when she was tired .  

There was an inn in the trees at the Bains de TAlliaz 
where the woodcutters stopped to drink ,  and we sat 
inside warmed by the stove and drank hot red wine 
with spices and lemon in it .  They called it gluhwein and 
it was a good thing to warm you and to celebrate with .  
The inn was dark and smoky inside and afterward 
when you went out the cold air came sharply into your 
lungs and numbed the edge of your nose as you in -  
haled .  We looked back at the inn with light coming 
from the windows and the woodcutters horses stamp -  
ing and jerking their heads outside to keep warm .  
There was frost on the hairs of their muzzles and their 
breathing made plumes of frost in the air .  Going up 
the road toward home the road was smooth and slip -  
pery for a while and the ice orange from the horses 
until the wood - hauling track turned off .  Then the road 

322 



A FAREWELL TO ARMS 323 

was clean - packed snow and led through the woods ,  and 
twice coming home in the evening ,  we saw foxes .  

It was a fine country and every time that we went 
out it was fun .  

 " You have a splendid beard now ,  "  Catherine said .  
 " It looks just like the woodcutters .  Did you see the 
man with the tiny gold ear - rings ?  "  

 " Hes a chamois hunter ,  "  I said .   " They wear them 
because they say it makes them hear better .  "  

 " Really ?  I dont believe it .  I think they wear them 
to show they are chamois hunters .  Are there chamois 
near here ?  "  

 " Yes ,  beyond the Dent de Jaman .  "  

 " It was fun seeing the fox .  "  

 " When he sleeps he wraps that tail around him to 
keep warm .  "  

 " It must be a lovely feeling .  "  

 " I always wanted to have a tail like that .  Wouldnt 
it be fun if we had brushes like a fox ?  "  

 " It might be very difficult dressing .  "  

 " Wed have clothes made ,  or live in a country where 
it wouldnt make any difference .  "  

 " We live in a country where nothing makes any dif -  
ference .  Isnt it grand how we never see any one ?  
You dont want to see people do you ,  darling  ?  "  

 " No .  "  

 " Should we sit here just a minute ?  Im a little bit 
tired .  "  

We sat close together on the logs .  Ahead the road 
went down through the forest .  

 " She wont come between us ,  will she ?  The little 
brat .  "  

 " No .  We wont let her .  "  

 " How are we for money ?  "  



324 A FAREWELL TO ARMS 

 " We have plenty .  They honored the last sight 
draft .  "  

 " Wont your family try and get hold of you now 
they know youre in Switzerland ?  

 " Probably .  Ill write them something .  "  

 " Havent you written them ?  "  

 " No .  Only the sight draft .  "  

 " Thank God Im not your family .  "  

 " Ill send them a cable .  "  

 " Dont you care anything about them ?  "  

 " I did ,  but we quarrelled so much it wore itself out .  "  

 " I think Id like them .  Id probably like them very 
much .  "  

 " Lets not talk about them or Ill start to worry 
about them .  "  After a while I said ,   " Lets go on if 
youre rested .  "  

 " Im rested .  "  

We went on down the road .  It was dark now and 
the snow squeaked under our boots .  The night was dry 
and cold and very clear .  

 " I love your beard ,  "  Catherine said .   " Its a great 
success .  It looks so stiff and fierce and its very soft 
and a great pleasure .  "  

 " Do you like it better than without ?  "  

 " I think so .  You know ,  darling ,  Im not going to cut 
my hair now until after young Catherines born .  I 
look too big and matronly now .  But after shes born 
and Im thin again Im going to cut it and then Ill 
be a fine new and different girl for you .  Well go to -  
gether and get it cut ,  or Ill go alone and come and 
surprise you .  "  

I did not say anything .  

 " You wont say I cant ,  will you ?  "  

 " No .  I think it would be exciting .  "  



A FAREWELL TO ARMS 31$ 

 " Oh ,  youre so sweet .  And maybe Id look lovely ,  
darling ,  and be so thin and exciting to you and youll 
fall in love with me all over again .  "  

 " Hell ,  "  I said ,   " I love you enough now .  What do 
you want to do ?  Ruin me ?  "  

 " Yes .  I want to ruin you .  "  

 " Good ,  "  I said ,   " thats what I want too .  "  



CHAPTER XL 

We had a fine life .  We lived through the months of 
January and February and the winter was very fine 
and we were very happy .  There had been short thaws 
when the wind blew warm and the snow softened and 
the air felt like Spring ,  but always the clear hard cold 
had come again and the winter had returned .  In 
March came the first break in the winter .  In the night 
it started raining .  It rained on all morning and turned 
the snow to slush and made the mountain - side dismal .  
There were clouds over the lake and over the valley .  
It was raining high up the mountain .  Catherine wore 
heavy overshoes and I wore Mr .  Guttingens rubber -  
boots and we walked to the station under an umbrella ,  
through the slush and the running water that was 
washing the ice of the roads bare ,  to stop at the pub 
before lunch for a vermouth .  Outside we could hear 
the rain .  

 " Do you think we ought to move into town ?  "  
 " What do you think  ?  "  Catherine asked .  
 " If the winter is over and the rain keeps up it wont 
be fun up here .  How long is it before young Cath -  
erine  ?  "  

 " About a month .  Perhaps a little more .  "  
 " We might go down and stay in Montreux .  "  
 " Why dont we go to Lausanne ?  Thats where the 
hospital is .  "  

 " All right .  But I thought maybe that was too big a 
town .  "  

 " We can be as much alone in a bigger town and 
Lausanne might be nice .  "  

326 



A FAREWELL TO ARMS 327 

 " When should we go ?  "  

 " I dont care .  Whenever you want ,  darling .  I dont 
want to leave here if you dont want .  "  

 " Lets see how the weather turns out .  "  

It rained for three days .  The snow was all gone now 
on the mountain - side below the station .  The road was 
a torrent of muddy snow - water .  It was too wet and 
slushy to go out .  On the morning of the third day of 
rain we decided to go down into town .  

 " That is all right ,  Mr .  Henry ,  "  Guttingen said .  
 " You do not have to give me any notice .  I did not 
think you would want to stay now the bad weather is 
come .  "  

 " We have to be near the hospital anyway on account 
of Madame ,  "  I said .  

 " I understand ,  "  he said .   " Will you come back some 
time and stay ,  with the little one ?  "  

 " Yes ,  if you would have room .  "  

 " In the Spring when it is nice you could come and 
enjoy it .  We could put the little one and the nurse in 
the big room that is closed now and you and Madame 
could have your same room looking out over the lake .  "  

 " Ill write about coming ,  "  I said .  We packed and 
left on the train that went down after lunch .  Mr .  and 
Mrs .  Guttingen came down to the station with us and 
he hauled our baggage down on a sled through the 
slush .  They stood beside the station in the rain wav -  
ing good - by .  

 " They were very sweet ,  "  Catherine said .  

 " They were fine to us .  "  

We took the train to Lausanne from Montreux .  
Looking out the window toward where we had lived 
you could not see the mountains for the clouds .  The 



328 A FAREWELL TO ARMS 

train stopped in Vevey ,  then went on ,  passing the lake 
on one side and on the other the wet brown fields and 
the bare woods and the wet houses .  We came into 
Lausanne and went into a medium - sized hotel to stay .  
It was still raining as we drove through the streets and 
into the carriage entrance of the hotel The concierge 
with brass keys on his lapels ,  the elevator ,  the carpets 
on the floors ,  and the white washbowls with shining 
fixtures ,  the brass bed and the big comfortable bed -  
room all seemed very great luxury after the Guttin -  
gens .  The windows of the room looked out on a wet 
garden with a wall topped by an iron fence .  Across 
the street ,  which sloped steeply ,  was another hotel with 
a similar wall and garden .  I looked out at the rain 
falling in the fountain of the garden .  

Catherine turned on all the lights and commenced 
unpacking .  I ordered a whiskey and soda and lay on 
the bed and read the papers I had bought at the sta -  
tion .  It was March ,  191 8 ,  and the German offensive 
had started in France .  I drank the whiskey and soda 
and read while Catherine unpacked and moved around 
the room .  

 " You know what I have to get ,  darling ,  "  she said .  

 " What ?  "  

 " Baby clothes .  There arent many people reach my 
time without baby things .  "  

 " You can buy them .  "  

 " I know .  Thats what Ill do to - morrow .  Ill find 
out what is necessary .  "  

 " You ought to know .  You were a nurse .  "  

 " But so few of the soldiers had babies in the hos -  
pitals .  "  

 " I did .  "  



A FAREWELL TO ARMS 329 

She hit me with the pillow and spilled the whiskey 
and soda .  

Til order you another/ she said .   " Im sorry I 
spilled it "  

 " There wasnt much left .  Come on over to the bed .  "  

 " No .  I have to try and make this room look like 
something .  "  

 " Like what ?  "  

 " Like our home .  "  

 " Hang out the Allied flags .  "  

 " Oh shut up .  "  

 " Say it again .  "  

 " Shut up .  "  

 " You say it so cautiously ,  "  I said .   " As though you 
didnt want to offend any one .  "  

 " I dont .  "  

 " Then come over to the bed .  "  

 " All right .  "  She came and sat on the bed .   " I know 
Im no fun for you ,  darling .  Im like a big flour - barrel .  "  

 " No youre not .  Youre beautiful and youre sweet .  "  

 " Im just something very ungainly that youve mar -  
ried .  "  

 " No youre not .  Youre more beautiful all the time .  "  

 " But I will be thin again ,  darling .  "  

 " Youre thin now .  "  

 " Youve been drinking .  "  

 " Just whiskey and soda .  "  

 " Theres another one coming ,  "  she said .   " And then 
should we order dinner up here ?  "  

 " That will be good .  "  

 " Then we wont go out ,  will we ?  Well just stay in 
to - night .  "  

 " And play ,  "  I said .  

 " Ill drink some wine ,  "  Catherine said .   " It wont 



33 o A FAREWELL TO ARMS 

hurt me .  Maybe we can get some of our old white 
capri .  "  

 " I know we can/ I said .  Theyll have Italian wines 
at a hotel this size .  "  

The waiter knocked at the door .  He brought the 
whiskey in a glass with ice and beside the glass on a 
tray a small bottle of soda .  

Thank you/ I said .  Tut it down there .  Will you 
please have dinner for two brought up here and two 
bottles of dry white capri in ice .  "   

 " Do you wish to commence your dinner with soup ?  "  

 " Do you want soup ,  Cat ?  "  

 " Please .  "  

 " Bring soup for one .  "  

 " Thank you ,  sir .  "  He went out and shut the door .  
I went back to the papers and the war in the papers and 
poured the soda slowly over the ice into the whiskey .  I 
would have to tell them not to put ice in the whiskey .  
Let them bring the ice separately .  That way you could 
tell how much whiskey there was and it would not sud -  
denly be too thin from the soda .  I would get a bottle 
of whiskey and have them bring ice and soda .  That 
was the sensible way .  Good whiskey was very pleasant .  
It was one of the pleasant parts of life .  

 " What are you thinking ,  darling ?  "  

 " About whiskey .  "  

 " What about whiskey ?  "  

 " About how nice it is .  "  

Catherine made a face .   " All right ,  "  she said .  

We stayed at that hotel three weeks .  It was not 
bad ;  the dining - room was usually empty and very of -  
ten we ate in our room at night .  We walked in the 



A FAREWELL TO ARMS 331 

town and took the cogwheel railway down to Ouchy 
and walked beside the lake .  The weather became quite 
warm and it was like Spring .  We wished we were back 
in the mountains but the Spring weather lasted only a 
few days and then the cold rawness of the breaking - up 
of winter came again .  

Catherine bought the things she needed for the baby ,  
up in the town .  I went to a gymnasium in the arcade 
to box for exercise .  I usually went up there in the 
morning while Catherine stayed late in bed .  On the 
days of false Spring it was very nice ,  after boxing and 
taking a shower ,  to walk along the streets smelling the 
Spring in the air and stop at a cafe to sit and watch 
the people and read the paper and drink a vermouth ;  
then go down to the hotel and have lunch with Cathe -  
rine .  The professor at the boxing gymnasium wore 
mustaches and was very precise and jerky and went 
all to pieces if you started after him .  But it was pleas -  
ant in the gym .  There was good air and light and I 
worked quite hard ,  skipping rope ,  shadow - boxing ,  do -  
ing abdominal exercises lying on the floor in a patch 
of sunlight that came through the open window ,  and 
occasionally scaring the professor when we boxed .  I 
could not shadow - box in front of the narrow long 
mirror at first because it looked so strange to see a 
man with a beard boxing .  But finally I just thought 
it was funny .  I wanted to take off the beard as soon 
as I started boxing but Catherine did not want me to .  

Sometimes Catherine and I went for rides out in 
the country in a carriage .  It was nice to ride when 
the days were pleasant and we found two good places 
where we could ride out to eat .  Catherine could not 
walk very far now and I loved to ride out along the 
country roads with her .  When there was a good day 



332 A FAREWELL TO ARMS 

we had a splendid time and we never had a bad time .  
We knew the baby was very close now and it gave us 
both a feeling as though something were hurrying us 
and we could not lose any time together .  



CHAPTER XLI 

One morning I awoke about three oclock hearing 
Catherine stirring in the bed .  

 " Are you all right ,  Cat ?  "  

 " Ive been having some pains ,  darling .  "  

 " Regularly ?  "  

 " No ,  not very .  "  

 " If you have them at all regularly well go to the 
hospital .  "  

I was very sleepy and went back to sleep .  A little 
while later I woke again .  

 " Maybe youd better call up the doctor ,  "  Catherine 
said .   " I think maybe this is it .  "  

I went to the phone and called the doctor .   " How 
often are the pains coming ?  "  he asked .  

 " How often are they coming ,  Cat ?  "  

 " I should think every quarter of an hour .  "  

 " You should go to the hospital then ,  "  the doctor 
said .   " I will dress and go there right away myself .  "  

I hung up and called the garage near the station to 
send up a taxi .  No one answered the phone for a long 
time .  Then I finally got a man who promised to send 
up a taxi at once .  Catherine was dressing .  Her bag 
was all packed with the things she would need at the 
hospital and the baby things .  Outside in the hall I 
rang for the elevator .  There was no answer .  I went 
downstairs .  There was no one downstairs except the 
night - watchman .  I brought the elevator up myself ,  
put Catherines bag in it ,  she stepped in and we went 
down .  The night - watchman opened the door for us 
and we sat outside on the stone slabs beside the stairs 

333 



334 A FAREWELL TO ARMS 

down to the driveway and waited for the taxi .  The 
night was clear and the stars were out .  Catherine was 
very excited .  

 " Im so glad its started/ she said .   " Now in a little 
while it will be all over .  "  

 " Youre a good brave girl .  "  

 " Im not afraid .  I wish the taxi would come ,  
though .  "  

We heard it coming up the street and saw its head -  
lights .  It turned into the driveway and I helped 
Catherine in and the driver put the bag up in front .  

 " Drive to the hospital ,  "  I said .  

We went out of the driveway and started up the hill .  

At the hospital we went in and I carried the bag .  
There was a woman at the desk who wrote down 
Catherines name ,  age ,  address ,  relatives and religion ,  
in a book .  She said she had no religion and the wo -  
man drew a line in the space after that word .  She 
gave her name as Catherine Henry .  

 " I will take you up to your room ,  "  she said .  We 
went up in an elevator .  The woman stopped it and we 
stepped out and followed her down a hall .  Catherine 
held tight to my arm .  

 " This is the room ,  "  the woman said .   " Will you 
please undress and get into bed  ?  Here is a nightgown 
for you to wear .  "  

 " I have a nightgown ,  "  Catherine said .  

 " It is better for you to wear this nightgown ,  "  the 
woman said .  

I went outside and sat on a chair in the hallway .  

 " You can come in now ,  "  the woman said from the 
doorway .  Catherine was lying in the narrow bed wear -  
ing a plain ,  square - cut nightgown that looked as though 
it were made of rough sheeting .  She smiled at me .  



A FAREWELL TO ARMS 335 

 " Im having fine pains now ,  "  she said .  The woman 
was holding her wrist and timing the pains with a 
watch .  

 " That was a big one ,  "  Catherine said .  I saw it on 
her face .  

 " Wheres the doctor ?  "  I asked the woman .  

 " Hes lying down sleeping .  He will be here when 
he is needed .  "  

 " I must do something for Madame ,  now ,  "  the nurse 
said .   " Would you please step out again ?  "  

I went out into the hall .  It was a bare hall with two 
windows and closed doors all down the corridor .  It 
smelled of hospital .  I sat on the chair and looked at 
the floor and prayed for Catherine .  

 " You can come in ,  "  the nurse said .  I went in .  

 " Hello ,  darling ,  "  Catherine said .  

 " How is it ?  "  

 " They are coming quite often now .  "  Her face drew 
up .  Then she smiled .  

 " That was a real one .  Do you want to put your 
hand on my back again ,  nurse ?  "  

 " If it helps you ,  "  the nurse said .  

 " You go away ,  darling ,  "  Catherine said .   " Go out 
and get something to eat .  I may do this for a long 
time the nurse says .  "  

 " The first labor is usually protracted ,  "  the nurse 
said .  

 " Please go out and get something to eat ,  "  Catherine 
said .   " Im fine ,  really .  "  

Til stay awhile ,  "  I said .  

The pains came quite regularly ,  then slackened off .  
Catherine was very excited .  When the pains were bad 
she called them good ones .  When they started to fall 
off she was disappointed and ashamed .  



336 A FAREWELL TO ARMS 

 " You go out ,  darling/ she said .   " I think you are 
just making me self - conscious .  "  Her face tied up .  
 " There .  That was better .  I so want to be a good wife 
and have this child without any foolishness .  Please 
go and get some breakfast ,  darling ,  and then come 
back .  I wont miss you .  Nurse is splendid to me .  "  

 " You have plenty of time for breakfast ,  "  the nurse 
saicj .  

 " Ill go then .  Good - by ,  sweet .  "  

 " Good - by ,  "  Catherine said ,   " and have a fine break -  
fast for me too .  "  

 " Where can I get breakfast ?  "  I asked the nurse .  

 " Theres a cafe down the street at the square ,  "  she 
said .   " It should be open now .  "  

Outside it was getting light .  I walked down the 
empty street to the cafe .  There was a light in the win -  
dow .  I went in and stood at the zinc bar and an old 
man served me a glass of white wine and a brioche .  
The brioche was yesterdays .  I dipped it in the wine 
and then drank a glass of coffee .  

 " What do you do at this hour ?  "  the old man asked .  

 " My wife is in labor at the hospital .  "  

 " So .  I wish you good luck .  "  

 " Give me another glass of wine .  "  

He poured it from the bottle slopping it over a little 
so some ran down on the zinc .  I drank this glass ,  paid 
and went out .  Outside along the street were the refuse 
cans from the houses waiting for the collector .  A dog 
was nosing at one of the cans .  

 " What do you want ?  "  I asked and looked in the can 
to see if there was anything I could pull out for him ;  
there was nothing on top but coffee - grounds ,  dust and 
some dead flowers .  

 " There isnt anything ,  dog ,  "  I said .  The dog crossed 



A FAREWELL TO ARMS 337 

the street .  I went up the stairs in the hospital to the 
floor Catherine was on and down the hall to her room .  
I knocked on the door .  There was no answer .  I opened 
the door ;  the room was empty ,  except for Catherines 
bag on a chair and her dressing - gown hanging on a 
hook on the wall .  I went out and down the hall ,  look -  
ing for somebody .  I found a nurse .  

 " Where is Madame Henry ?  "  

 " A lady has just gone to the delivery room .  "  

 " Where is it ?  "  

 " I will show you .  "  

She took me down to the end of the hall .  The door 
of the room was partly open .  I could see Catherine 
lying on a table ,  covered by a sheet .  The nurse was on 
one side and the doctor stood on the other side of the 
table beside some cylinders .  The doctor held a rubber 
mask attached to a tube in one hand .  

 " I will give you a gown and you can go in ,  "  the 
nurse said .   " Come in here ,  please .  "  

She put a white gown on me and pinned it at the 
neck in back with a safety pin .  

 " Now you can go in ,  "  she said .  I went into the room .  

 " Hello ,  darling ,  "  Catherine said in a strained voice .  
 " Im not doing much .  "  

 " You are Mr .  Henry ?  "  the doctor asked .  

 " Yes .  How is everything going ,  doctor ?  "  

 " Things are going very well ,  "  the doctor said .   " We 
came in here where it is easy to give gas for the pains .  "  

 " I want it now ,  "  Catherine said .  The doctor placed 
the rubber mask over her face and turned a dial and I 
watched Catherine breathing deeply and rapidly .  Then 
she pushed the mask away .  The doctor shut off the 
petcock .  

 " That wasnt a very big one .  I had a very big one 



338 A FAREWELL TO ARMS 

a while ago .  The doctor made me go clear out ,  didnt 
you ,  doctor  ?  "  Her voice was strange .  It rose on the 
word doctor .  

The doctor smiled .  

 " I want it again ,  "  Catherine said .  She held the rub -  
ber tight to her face and breathed fast .  I heard her 
moaning a little .  Then she pulled the mask away and 
smiled .  

That was a big one ,  "  she said .   " That was a very 
big one .  Dont you worry ,  darling .  You go away .  Go 
have another breakfast .  "  

Til stay ,  "  I said .  

We had gone to the hospital about three oclock in the 
morning .  At noon Catherine was still in the delivery 
room .  The pains had slackened again .  She looked very 
tired and worn now but she was still cheerful .  

 " Im not any good ,  darling ,  "  she said .   " Im so sorry .  
I thought I would do it very easily .  Now  theres 
one   "  she reached out her hand for the mask and held 
it over her face .  The doctor moved the dial and 
watched her .  In a little while it was over .  

 " It wasnt much ,  "  Catherine said .  She smiled .   " Im 
a fool about the gas .  Its wonderful .  "  

 " Well get some for the home ,  "  I said .  

 " There one comes Catherine said quickly .  The doc -  
tor turned the dial and looked at his watch .  

 " What is the interval now ?  "  I asked .  

 " About a minute .  "  

 " Dont you want lunch  ?  "  

 " I will have something pretty soon ,  "  he said .  

 " You must have something to eat ,  doctor ,  "  Cathe -  
rine said .   " Im so sorry I go on so long .  Couldnt my 
husband give me the gas  ?  "  



A FAREWELL TO ARMS 339 

 " If you wish ,  "  the doctor said .   " You turn it to the 
numeral two .  "  

 " I see ,  "  I said .  There was a marker on a dial that 
turned with a handle .  

 " I want it now/ Catherine said .  She held the mask 
tight to her face .  I turned the dial to number two and 
when Catherine put down the mask I turned it off .  It 
was very good of the doctor to let me do something .  

 " Did you do it ,  darling ?  "  Catherine asked .  She 
stroked my wrist .  

 " Sure .  "  

 " Youre so lovely .  "  She was a little drunk from 
the gas .  

 " I will eat from a tray in the next room ,  "  the doc -  
tor said .   " You can call me any moment .  "  While the 
time passed I watched him eat ,  then ,  after a while ,  I 
saw that he was lying down and smoking ,  a cigarette .  
Catherine was getting very tired .  

 " Do you think Ill ever have this baby ?  "  she asked .  

 " Yes ,  of course you will .  "  

 " I try as hard as I can .  I push down but it goes 
away .  There it comes .  Give it to me .  "  

At two oclock I went out and had lunch .  There 
were a few men in the cafe sitting with coffee and 
glasses of kirsch or marc on the tables .  I sat down at 
a table .   " Can I eat ?  "  I asked the waiter .  

 " It is past time for lunch .  "  

 " Isnt there anything for all hours ?  "  

 " You can have choucroute .  "  

 " Give me choucroute and beer .  "  

 " A demi or a bock ?  "  

 " A light demi .  "  

The waiter brought a dish of sauerkraut with a slice 



34 o A FAREWELL TO ARMS 

of ham over the top and a sausage buried in the hot 
wine - soaked cabbage .  I ate it and drank the beer .  I was 
very hungry .  I watched the people at the tables in the 
cafe .  At one table they were playing cards .  Two men 
at the table next me were talking and smoking .  The 
cafe was full of smoke .  The zinc bar ,  where I had 
breakfasted ,  had three people behind it now ;  the old 
man ,  a plump woman in a black dress who sat behind 
a counter and kept track of everything served to the 
tables ,  and a boy in an apron .  I wondered how many 
children the woman had and what it had been like .  

When I was through with the choucroute I went 
back to the hospital .  The street was all clean now .  
There were no refuse cans out .  The day was cloudy 
but the sun was trying to come through .  I rode up -  
stairs in the elevator ,  stepped out and went down the 
hall to Catherines room ,  where I had left my white 
gown .  I put it on and pinned it in back at the neck .  
I looked in the glass and saw myself looking like a fake 
doctor with a beard .  I went down the hall to the de -  
livery room .  The door was closed and I knocked .  No 
one answered so I turned the handle and went in .  The 
doctor sat by Catherine .  The nurse was doing some -  
thing at the other end of the room .  

 " Here is your husband ,  "  the doctor said .  

 " Oh ,  darling ,  I have the most wonderful doctor ,  "  
Catherine said in a very strange voice .   " Hes been 
telling me the most wonderful story and when the pain 
came too badly he put me all the way out .  Hes won -  
derful .  Youre wonderful ,  doctor .  "  

 " Youre drunk ,  "  I said .  

 " I know it ,  "  Catherine said .   " But you shouldnt say 
it .  "  Then  " Give it to me .  Give it to me .  "  She 
clutched hold of the mask and breathed short and deep ,  



A FAREWELL TO ARMS 341 

pantingly ,  making the respirator click .  Then she gave 
a long sigh and the doctor reached with his left hand 
and lifted away the mask .  

 " That was a very big one ,  "  Catherine said .  Her voice 
was very strange .   " Im not going to die now ,  darling .  
Im past where I was going to die .  Arent you glad  ?  "  

 " Dont you get in that place again .  "  

 " I wont .  Im not afraid of it though .  I wont die ,  
darling .  "  

 " You will not do any such foolishness ,  "  the doctor 
said .   " You would not die and leave your husband .  "  

 " Oh ,  no .  I wont die .  I wouldnt die .  Its silly to 
die .  There it comes .  Give it to me !  

After a while the doctor said ,   " You will go out ,  Mr .  
Henry ,  for a few moments and I will make an ex -  
amination .  "  

 " He wants to see how I am doing ,  "  Catherine said .  
 " You can come back afterward ,  darling ,  cant he ,  doc -  
tor ?  "  

 " Yes ,  "  said the doctor .   " I will send word when he 
can come back .  "  

I went out the door and down the hall to the room 
where Catherine was to be after the baby came .  I 
sat in a chair there ana looked at the room .  I had the 
paper in my coat that I had bought when I went out 
for lunch and I read it .  It was beginning to be dark 
outside and I turned the light on to read .  After a while 
I stopped reading and turned off the light and watched 
it get dark outside .  I wondered why the doctor did 
not send for me .  Maybe it was better I was away .  
He probably wanted me away for a while .  I looked 
at my watch .  If he did not send for me in ten minutes 
I would go down anyway .  

Poor ,  poor dear Cat .  And this was the price you 



342 A FAREWELL TO ARMS 

paid for sleeping together .  This was the end of the 
trap .  This was what people got for loving each other .  
Thank God for gas ,  anyway .  What must it have been 
like before there were anaesthetics ?  Once it started ,  
they were in the mill - race .  Catherine had a good time 
in the time of pregnancy .  It wasnt bad .  She was 
hardly ever sick .  She was not awfully uncomfortable 
until toward the last .  So now they got her in the end .  
You never got away with anything .  Get away hell !  
It would have been the same if we had been married 
fifty times .  And what if she should die ?  She wont 
die .  People dont die in childbirth nowadays .  That 
was what all husbands thought .  Yes ,  but what if she 
should die ?  She wont die .  Shes just having a bad 
time .  The initial labor is usually protracted .  Shes 
only having a bad time .  Afterward wed say what a 
bad time and Catherine would say it wasnt really so 
bad .  But what if she should die ?  She cant die .  Yes ,  
but what if she should die ?  She cant ,  I tell you .  Dont 
be a fool .  Its just a bad time .  Its just nature giv -  
ing her hell .  Its only the first labor ,  which is almost 
always protracted .  Yes ,   - but what if she should die ?  
She cant die .  Why would she die ?  What reason is 
there for her to die ?  Theres just a child that has to 
be born ,  the by - product of good nights in Milan .  It 
makes trouble and is born and then you look after it 
and get fond of it maybe .  But what if she should die ?  
She wont die .  But what if she should die ?  She 
wont .  Shes all right .  But what if she should die ?  
She cant die .  But what if she should die ?  Hey ,  what 
about that ?  What if she should die ?  

The doctor came into the room .  

 " How does it go ,  doctor ?  "  

 " It doesnt go ,  "  he said .  



A FAREWELL TO ARMS 343 

 " What do you mean ?  "  

 " Just that .  I made an examination   "  He detailed 
the result of the examination .   " Since then Ive waited 
to see .  But it doesnt go .  "  

 " What do you advise ?  "  

 " There are two things .  Either a high forceps de -  
livery which can tear and be quite dangerous besides 
being possibly bad for the child ,  and a Caesarean .  "  

 " What is the danger of a Caesarean ?  "  What if she 
should die  !  

 " It should be no greater than the danger of an or -  
dinary delivery .  "  

 " Would you do it yourself ?  "  

 " Yes .  I would need possibly an hour to get things 
ready and to get the people I would need .  Perhaps a 
little less .  "  

 " What do you think ?  "  

 " I would advise a Caesarean operation .  If it were 
my wife I would do a Caesarean .  "  

 " What are the after effects ?  "  

 " There are none .  There is only the scar .  "  

 " What about infection ?  "  * 

 " The danger is not so great as in a high forceps de -  
livery .  "  

 " What if you just went on and did nothing ?  "  

 " You would have to do something eventually .  Mrs .  
Henry is already losing much of her strength .  The 
sooner we operate now the safer .  "  

 " Operate as soon as you can ,  "  I said .  

 " I will go and give the instructions .  "  

I went into the delivery room .  The nurse was with 
Catherine who lay on the table ,  big under the sheet ,  
looking very pale and tired .  

 " Did you tell him he could do it ?  "  she asked .  



344 A FAREWELL TO ARMS 

 " Yes .  "  

 " Isnt that grand .  Now it will be all over in an hour .  
Im almost done ,  darling .  Im going all to pieces .  
Please give me that .  It doesnt work .  Oh ,  it doesnt 
work !  "  

 " Breathe deeply .  "  

 " I am .  Oh ,  it doesnt work any more .  It doesnt 
work !  "  

 " Get another cylinder ,  "  I said to the nurse .  

 " That is a new cylinder .  "  

 " Im just a fool ,  darling ,  "  Catherine said .   " But it 
doesnt work any more .  "  She began to cry .   " Oh ,  I 
wanted so to have this baby and not make trouble ,  and 
now Im all done and all gone to pieces and it doesnt 
work .  Oh ,  darling ,  it doesnt work at all .  I dont 
care if I die if it will only stop .  Oh ,  please ,  darling ,  
please make it stop .  There it comes .  Oh Oh Oh !  "  
She breathed sobbingly in the mask .   " It doesnt work .  
It doesnt work .  It doesnt work .  Dont mind me ,  
darling .  Please dont cry .  Dont mind me .  Im just 
gone all to pieces .  You poor sweet .  I love you so and 
Ill be good again .  Ill be good this time .  Cant they 
give me something ?  If they could only give me some -  
thing .  "  

 " Ill make it work .  Ill turn it all the way .  "  

 " Give it to me now .  "  

I turned the dial all the way and as she breathed 
hard and deep her hand relaxed on the mask .  I shut 
off the gas and lifted the mask .  She came back from 
a long way away .  

 " That was lovely ,  darling .  Oh ,  youre so good to 
me .  

 " You be brave ,  because I cant do that all the time .  
It might kill you .  "  



A FAREWELL TO ARMS 345 

 " Im not brave any more ,  darling .  Im all broken .  
Theyve broken me .  I know it now .  "  

 " Everybody is that way .  "  

 " But its awful .  They just keep it up till they break 
you .  "  

 " In an hour it will be over .  "  

 " Isnt that lovely ?  Darling ,  I wont die ,  will I ?  "  

 " No .  I promise you wont .  "  

 " Because I dont want to die and leave you ,  but I 
get so tired of it and I feel Im going to die .  "  

 " Nonsense .  Everybody feels that .  "  

 " Sometimes I know Im going to die .  "  

 " You wont .  You cant .  "  

 " But what if I should ?  "  

 " I wont let you .  "  

 " Give it to me quick .  Give it to meT 

Then afterward ,   " I wont die .  I wont let myself 
die .  "  

 " Of course you wont .  "  

 " Youll stay with me ?  "  

 " Not to watch it .  "  

 " No ,  just to be there .  "  

 " Sure .  Ill be there all the time .  "  

 " Youre so good to me .  There ,  give it to me .  Give 
me some more .  Ifs not working !  "  

I turned the dial to three and then four .  I wished 
the doctor would come back .  I was afraid of the num -  
bers above two .  

Finally a new doctor came in with two nurses and 
they lifted Catherine onto a wheeled stretcher and we 
started down the hall .  The stretcher went rapidly down 
the hall and into the elevator where every one had to 
crowd against the wall to make room ;  then up ,  then 



346 A FAREWELL TO ARMS 

an open door and out of the elevator and down the 
hall on rubber wheels to the operating room .  I did 
not recognize the doctor with his cap and mask on .  
There was another doctor and more nurses .  

 " Theyve got to give me something ,  "  Catherine said .  
 " Theyve got to give me something .  Oh please ,  doc -  
tor ,  give me enough to do some good  !  "  

One of the doctors put a mask over her face and I 
looked through the door and saw the bright small am -  
phitheatre of the operating room .  

 " You can go in the other door and sit up there ,  "  a 
nurse said to me .  There were benches behind a rail 
that looked down on the white table and the lights .  I 
looked at Catherine .  The mask was over her face and 
she was quiet now .  They wheeled the stretcher for -  
ward .  I turned away and walked down the hall .  Two 
nurses were hurrying toward the entrance to the gal -  
lery .  

 " Its a Caesarean ,  "  one said .   " Theyre going to do a 
Caesar can .  "  

The other one laughed ,   " Were just in time .  Arent 
we lucky ?  "  They went in the door that led to the 
gallery .  

Another nurse came along .  She was hurrying too .  

 " You go right in there .  Go right in ,  "  she said .  

 " Im staying outside .  "  

She hurried in .  I walked up and down the hall .  I 
was afraid to go in .  I looked out the window .  It was 
dark but in the light from the window I could see it 
was raining .  I went into a room at the far end of the 
hall and looked at the labels on bottles in a glass case .  
Then I came out and stood in the empty hall and 
watched the door of the operating room .  

A doctor came out followed by a nurse .  He held 



A FAREWELL TO ARMS 347 

something in his two hands that looked like a freshly 
skinned rabbit and hurried across the corridor with it 
and in through another door .  I went down to the door 
he had gone into and found them in the room doing 
things to a new - born child .  The doctor held him up for 
me to see .  He held him by the heels and slapped him .  

 " Is he all right  ?  "  

 " Hes magnificent .  Hell weigh five kilos .  "  

I had no feeling for him .  He did not seem to have 
anything to do with me .  I felt no feeling of father -  
hood .  

 " Arent you proud of your son ?  "  the nurse asked .  
They were washing him and wrapping him in some -  
thing .  I saw the little dark face and dark hand ,  but I 
did not see him move or hear him cry .  The doctor was 
doing something to him again .  He looked upset .  

 " No ,  "  I said .   " He nearly killed his mother .  "  

 " It isnt the little darlings fault .  Didnt you want 
a boy ?  "  

 " No ,  "  I said .  The doctor was busy with him .  He 
held him up by the feet and slapped him .  I did not 
wait to see it .  I went out in the hall .  I could go in 
now and see .  I went in the door and a little way down 
the gallery .  The nurses who were sitting at the rail 
motioned for me to come down where they were .  I 
shook my head .  I could see enough where I was .  

I thought Catherine was dead .  She looked dead .  
Her face was gray ,  the part of it that I could see .  
Down below ,  under the light ,  the doctor was sewing 
up the great long ,  forcep - spread ,  thick - edged ,  wound .  
Another doctor in a mask gave the anaesthetic .  Two 
nurses in masks handed things .  It looked like a draw -  
ing of the Inquisition .  I knew as I watched I could 
have watched it all ,  but I was glad I hadnt .  I do not 



348 A FAREWELL TO ARMS 

think I could have watched them cut ,  but I watched the 
wound closed into a high welted ridge with quick skil -  
ful - looking stitches like a cobblers ,  and was glad .  When 
the wound was closed I went out into the hall and 
walked up and down again .  After a while the doctor 
came out .  

 " How is she ?  "  

 " She is all right .  Did you watch ?  "  

He looked tired .  

 " I saw you sew up .  The incision looked very long .  "  

 " You thought so ?  "  

 " Yes .  Will that scar flatten out ?  "  

 " Oh ,  yes .  "  

After a while they brought out the wheeled stretcher 
and took it very rapidly down the hallway to the ele -  
vator .  I went along beside it .  Catherine was moan -  
ing .  Downstairs they put her in the bed in her room .  
I sat in a chair at the foot of the bed .  There was a 
nurse in the room .  I got up and stood by the bed .  It 
was dark in the room .  Catherine put out her hand ,  
 " Hello ,  darling ,  "  she said .  Her voice was very weak 
and tired .  

 " Hello ,  you sweet .  "  

 " What sort of baby was it ?  "  

 " Sh  dont talk ,  "  the nurse said .  

 " A boy .  Hes long and wide and dark .  "  

 " Is he all right ?  "  

 " Yes ,  "  I said .   " Hes fine .  "  

I saw the nurse look at me strangely .  

 " Im awfully tired ,  "  Catherine said .   " And I hurt 
like hell .  Are you all right ,  darling ?  "  

 " Im fine .  Dont talk .  "  

 " You were lovely to me .  Oh ,  darling ,  I hurt dread -  
fully .  What does he look like ?  "  



A FAREWELL TO ARMS 349 

 " He looks like a skinned rabbit with a puckered - up 
old - mans face .  "  

 " You must go out ,  "  the nurse said .   " Madame 
Henry must not talk .  "  

 " Ill be outside ,  "  I said .  

 " Go and get something to eat .  "  

 " No .  Ill be outside .  "  I kissed Catherine .  She 
was very gray and weak and tired .  

 " May I speak to you ?  "  I said to the nurse .  She 
came out in the hall with me .  I walked a little way 
down the hall .  

 " Whats the matter with the baby ?  "  I asked .  

 " Didnt you know ?  "  

 " No .  "  

 " He wasnt alive .  "  

 " He was dead ?  "  

 " They couldnt start him breathing .  The cord was 
caught around his neck or something .  "  

 " So hes dead .  "  

 " Yes .  Its such a shame .  He was such a fine big 
boy .  I thought you knew .  "  

 " No ,  "  I said .   " You better go back in with Ma -  
dame .  "  

I sat down on the chair in front of a table where 
there were nurses reports hung on clips at the side and 
looked out of the window .  I could see nothing but 
the dark and the rain falling across the light from the 
window .  So that was it .  The baby was dead .  That 
was why the doctor looked so tired .  But why had they 
acted the way they did in the room with him ?  They 
supposed he would come around and start breathing 
probably .  I had no religion but I knew he ought to 
have been baptized .  But what if he never breathed at 



350 A FAREWELL TO ARMS 

all .  He hadnt .  He had never been alive .  Except in 
Catherine .  Fd felt him kick there often enough .  But 
I hadnt for a week .  Maybe he was choked all the time .  
Poor little kid .  I wished the hell Fd been choked like 
that .  No I didnt .  Still there would not be all this dying 
to go through .  Now Catherine would die .  That was 
what you did .  You died .  You did not know what it 
was about .  You never had time to learn .  They threw 
you in and told you the rules and the first time they 
caught you off base they killed you .  Or they killed 
you gratuitously like Aymo .  Or gave you the syphi -  
lis like Rinaldo .  But they killed you in the end .  You 
could count on that .  Stay around and they would kill 
you .  

Once in camp I put a log on top of the fire and it 
was full of ants .  As it commenced to burn ,  the ants 
swarmed out and went first toward the centre where 
the fire was  ;  then turned back and ran toward the end .  
When there were enough on the end they fell off into 
the fire .  Some got out ,  their bodies burnt and flattened ,  
and went off not knowing where they were going .  But 
most of them went toward the fire and then back to -  
ward the end and swarmed on the cool end and finally 
fell off into the fire .  I remember thinking at the time 
that it was the end of the world and a splendid chance 
to be a messiah and lift the log off the fire and throw 
it out where the ants could get off onto the ground .  
But I did not do anything but throw a tin cup of water 
on the log ,  so that I would have* the cup empty to put 
whiskey in before I added water to it .  I think the cup 
of water on the burning log only steamed the ants .  

So now I sat out in the hall and waited to hear how 
Catherine was .  The nurse did not come out ,  so after a 
while I went to the door and opened it very softly and 



A FAREWELL TO ARMS 351 

looked in .  I could not see at first because there was a 
bright light in the hall and it was dark in the room .  
Then I saw the nurse sitting by the bed and Cathe -  
rines head on a pillow ,  and she all flat under the sheet .  
The nurse put her finger to her lips ,  then stood up and 
came to the door .  

 " How is she ?  "  I asked .  

 " Shes all right ,  "  the nurse said .   " You should go 
and have your supper and then come back if you wish .  "  

I went down the hall and then down the stairs and 
out the door of the hospital and down the dark street 
in the rain to the cafe .  It was brightly lighted inside 
and there were many people at the tables .  I did not 
see a place to sit ,  and a waiter came up to me and took 
my wet coat and hat and showed me a place at a table 
across from an elderly man who was drinking beer and 
reading the evening paper .  I sat down and asked the 
waiter what the plat du jour was .  

 " Veal stew  but it is finished .  "  

 " What can I have to eat ?  "  

 " Ham and eggs ,  eggs with cheese ,  or choucroute "  

 " I had choucroute this noon ,  "  I said .  

 " Thats true ,  "  he said .   " Thats true .  You ate chou -  
croute this noon .  "  He was a middle - aged man with a 
bald top to his head and his hair slicked over it .  He 
had a kind face .  

 " What do you want ?  Ham and eggs or eggs with 
cheese ?  "  

 " Ham and eggs ,  "  I said ,   " and beer .  "  

 " A demi - blonde ?  "  

 " Yes ,  "  I said .  

 " I remembered ,  "  he said .   " You took a demi - blonde 
this noon .  "  

I ate the ham and eggs and drank the beer .  The ham 



352 A FAREWELL TO ARMS 

and eggs were in a round dish  the ham underneath 
and the eggs on top .  It was very hot and at the first 
mouthful I had to take a drink of beer to cool my 
mouth .  I was hungry and I asked the waiter for an -  
other order .  I drank several glasses of beer .  I was 
not thinking at all but read the paper of the man op -  
posite me .  It was about the break through on the Brit -  
ish front .  When he realized I was reading the back of 
his paper he folded it over .  I thought of asking the 
waiter for a paper ,  but I could not concentrate .  It 
was hot in the cafe and the air was bad .  Many of the 
people at the tables knew one another .  There were sev -  
eral card games going on .  The waiters were busy 
bringing drinks from the bar to the tables .  Two men 
came in and could find no place to sit .  They stood op -  
posite the table where I was .  I ordered another beer .  
I was not ready to leave yet .  It was too soon to go 
back to the hospital .  I tried not to think and to be 
perfectly calm .  The men stood around but no one was 
leaving ,  so they went out .  I drank another beer .  There 
was quite a pile of saucers now on the table in front of 
me .  The man opposite me had taken off his spectacles ,  
put them away in a case ,  folded his paper and put it 
in his pocket and now sat holding his liqueur glass and 
looking out at the room .  Suddenly I knew I had to 
get back .  I called the waiter ,  paid the reckoning ,  got 
into my coat ,  put on my hat and started out the door .  
I walked through the rain up to the hospital .  

Upstairs I met the nurse coming down the hall .  

 " I just called you at the hotel ,  "  she said .  Some -  
thing dropped inside me .  

 " What is wrong ?  "  

 " Mrs .  Henry has had a hemorrhage .  "  

 " Can I go in ?  "  



A FAREWELL TO ARMS 353 

 " No ,  not yet .  The doctor is with her .  "  

 " Is it dangerous  ?  "  

 " It is very dangerous .  "  The nurse went into the 
room and shut the door .  I sat outside in the hall .  
Everything was gone inside of me .  I did not think .  
I could not think .  I knew she was going to die and 
I prayed that she would not .  Dont let her die .  Oh ,  
God ,  please dont let her die .  Ill do anything for you 
if you wont let her die .  Please ,  please ,  please ,  dear 
God ,  dont let her die .  Dear God ,  dont let her die .  
Please ,  please ,  please dont let her die .  God please 
make her not die .  Ill do anything you say if you dont 
let her die .  You took the baby but dont let her die .  
That was all right but dont let her die .  Please ,  please ,  
dear God ,  dont let her die .  

The nurse opened the door and motioned with her 
finger for me to come .  I followed her into the room .  
Catherine did not look up when I came in .  I went over 
to the side of the bed .  The doctor was standing by the 
bed on the opposite side .  Catherine looked at me and 
smiled .  I bent down over the bed and started to cry .  

 " Poor darling ,  "  Catherine said very softly .  She 
looked gray .  

 " Youre all right ,  Cat ,  "  I said .   " Youre going to be 
all right .  "  

 " Im going to die ,  "  she said ;  then waited and said ,  
 " I hate it .  "  

I took her hand .  

 " Dont touch me ,  "  she said .  I let go of her hand .  
She smiled .   " Poor darling .  You touch me all you 
want .  "  

 " Youll be all right ,  Cat .  I know youll be all right .  "  

 " I meant to write you a letter to have if anything 
happened ,  but I didnt do it .  "  



354 A FAREWELL TO ARMS 

 " Do you want me to get a priest or any one to come 
and see you ?  "  

 " Just you ,  "  she said .  Then a little later ,   " Im not 
afraid .  I just hate it .  "  

 " You must not talk so much ,  "  the doctor said .  

 " All right ,  "  Catherine said .  

 " Do you want me to do anything ,  Cat ?  Can I get 
you anything ?  "  

Catherine smiled ,   " No .  "  Then a little later ,   " You 
wont do our things with another girl ,  or say the same 
things ,  will you ?  "  

 " Never .  "  

 " I want you to have girls ,  though .  "  

 " I dont want them .  "  

 " You are talking too much ,  "  the doctor said .   " Mr .  
Henry must go out .  He can come back again later .  
You are not going to die .  You must not be silly .  "  

 " All right ,  "  Catherine said .   " Ill come and stay with 
you nights ,  "  she said .  It was very hard for her to 
talk .  

 " Please go out of the room ,  "  the doctor said .   " You 
cannot talk .  "  Catherine winked at me ,  her face gray .  
 " Ill be right outside ,  "  I said .  

 " Dont worry ,  darling ,  "  Catherine said .   " Im not a 
bit afraid .  Its just a dirty trick .  "  

 " You dear ,  brave sweet .  "  

I waited outside in the hall .  I waited a long time .  
The nurse came to the door and came over to me .   " Im 
afraid Mrs .  Henry is very ill ,  "  she said .   " Im afraid 
for her .  "  

 " Is she dead ?  "  

 " No ,  but she is unconscious .  "  

It seems she had one hemorrhage after another .  
They couldnt stop it .  I went into the room and stayed 



A FAREWELL TO ARMS 355 

with Catherine until she died .  She was unconscious 
all the time ,  and it did not take her very long to die .  

Outside the room ,  in the hall ,  I spoke to the doctor ,  
is there anything I can do to - night ?  "  

 " No .  There is nothing to do .  Can I take you to your 
hotel ?  "  

 " No ,  thank you .  I am going to stay here a while .  "  

 " I know there is nothing to say .  I cannot tell 
you  "  

 " No ,  "  I said .   " Therms nothing to say .  "  

 " Good - night ,  "  he said .   " I cannot take you to your 
hotel ?  "  

 " No ,  thank you .  "  

 " It was the only thing to do ,  "  he said .   " The opera -  
tion proved  "  

 " I do not want to talk about it ,  "  I said .  

 " I would like to take you to your hotel .  "  

 " No ,  thank you .  "  

He went down the hall .  I went to the door of the 
room .  

 " You cant come in now ,  "  one of the nurses said .  

 " Yes I can ,  "  I said .  

 " You cant come in yet .  "  

 " You get out ,  "  I said .   " The other one too .  "  

But after I had got them out and shut the door and 
turned off the light it wasnt any good .  It was like say -  
ing good - by to a statue .  After a while I went out and 
left the hospital and walked back to the hotel in the rain .  

The End 

