
THE FIRST FORTY - NINE STORIES 

by 
ERNEST HEMINGWAY 


PREFACE 

THERE is not much to say about these stories .  The first four 
are the last ones I have written .  The others follow in the 
order in which they were originally published .  

The first one I wrote was Up in Michigan ,  written in 
Paris in 1921 .  The last was Old Man at the Bridge ,  cabled 
from Barcelona in April of 1938 .  

I wrote The Killers ,  To - day Is Friday ,  Ten Indians "  ,  
part of Fiesta ,  and the first third of To Have and Have Not 
in Madrid .  It was always a good place for working .  So was 
Paris ,  and so were Key West ,  Florida ,  in the cool months ;  the 
ranch ,  near Cooke City ,  Montana ;  Kansas City ;  Chicago ;  
Toronto ,  and Havana ,  Cuba .  

Some other places were not so good ,  but maybe we were 
not so good when we were in them .  

There are many kinds of stories in this book .  I hope that 
you will find some that you like .  Reading them over ,  the ones 
I liked the best ,  outside of those that have achieved some 
notoriety so that school teachers include them in story col -  
lections that their pupils have to buy in story courses ,  and 
you are always faintly embarrassed to read them and wonder 
whether you really wrote them or did you maybe hear them ,  
somewhere ,  are The Short Happy Life of Francis Macomber ,  
In Another Country 5  ,  Hills Like White Elephants ,  A Way 
Youll Never Be ,  The Snows of Kilimanjaro ,  A Clean ,  
Well - Lighted Place ,  and a story called The Light of the 
World ,  which nobody else ever liked .  There are some others 
too .  Because if you did not like them you would not publish 
them .  

In going where you have to go ,  and doing what you have 
to do ,  and seeing what you have to see ,  you dull and blunt 
the instrument you write with .  But I would rather have it 
bent and dulled and know I had to put it on the grindstone 
again and hammer it into shape and put a whetstone to it ,  
and know that I had something to write about ,  than to have 



8 PREFACE 

it bright and shining and nothing to say ,  or smooth and well 
oiled in the closet ,  but unused .  < 

Now it is necessary to get to the grindstone again .  I would 
like to live long enough to write three more novels and 
twenty - five more stories .  I know some pretty good ones .  

ERNEST HEMINGWAY 



THE SHORT HAPPY LIFE OF 
FRANCIS MACOMBER 

IT was now lunch time and they were all sitting under the 
double green fly of the dining tent pretending thit nothing 
had happened .  

Will you have lime juice or lemon squash ?  5 Macomber 
asked .  

Til have a gimlet /  Robert Wilson told him .  

Til have a gimlet too .  I need something ,  Macombers 
wife said .  

I suppose its the thing to do /  Macomber agreed .  Tell 
him to make three gimlets .  

The mess boy had started them already ,  lifting the bottles 
out of the canvas cooling bags that sweated wet in the wind 
that blew through the trees that shaded the tents .  

What had I ought to give them ?  Macomber asked .  

A quid would be plenty /  Wilson told him .  You dont 
want to spoil them .  

Will the headman distribute it ?  

Absolutely .  

Francis Macomber had ,  half an hour before ,  been carried 
to his tent from the edge of the camp in triumph on the arms 
and shoulders of the cook ,  the personal boys ,  the skinner and 
the porters .  The gun - bearers had taken no part in the 
demonstration .  When the native boys put him down at the 
door of his tent ,  he had shaken all their hands ,  received their 
congratulations ,  and then gone into the tent and sat on the 
bed until his wife came in .  She did not speak to him when 
she came in and he left the tent at once to wash his face and 
hands in the portable wash basin outside and go over to the 
dining tent to sit in a comfortable canvas chair in the breeze 
and the shade .  

Mrs .  Macomber looked at Wilson quickly .  She was an 
extremely handsome and well - kept woman of the beauty and 
social position which had ,  five years before ,  commanded five 



io HAPPY LIFE OF FRANCIS MACOMBER 

thousand dollars as the price of endorsing ,  with photographs ,  
a beauty product which she had never used .  She had been 
married to Francis Macomber for eleven years .  

He is a good lion ,  isnt he ?  Macomber said .  His wife 
looked at him now .  She looked at both these men as though 
she had never seen them before .  

One ,  Wilson ,  the white hunter ,  she knew she had never 
truly seen before .  He was about middle height with sandy 
hair ,  a stubby moustache ,  a very red face and extremely cold 
blue eyes with faint white wrinkles at the corners that grooved 
merrily when he smiled .  He smiled at her now and she 
looked away from his face at the way his shoulders sloped in 
the loose tunic he wore with the four big cartridges held in 
loops where the left breast pocket should have been ,  at his 
big brown hands ,  his old slacks ,  his very dirty boots ,  and back 
to his red face again .  She noticed where the baked red of his 
face stopped in a white line that marked the circle left by his 
Stetson hat that hung now from one of the pegs of the tent pole .  

Well ,  heres to the lion ,  5 Robert Wilson said .  He smiled at 
her again and ,  not smiling ,  she looked curiously at her 
husband .  

Francis Macomber was very tall ,  very well built if you did 
not mind that length of bone ,  dark ,  his hair cropped like an 
oarsman ,  rather thin - lipped ,  and was considered handsome .  
He was dressed in the same sort of safari clothes that Wilson 
wore except that his were new ,  he was thirty - five years old ,  
kept himself very fit ,  was good at court games ,  had a number 
of big -  game fishing records ,  and had just shown himself ,  very 
publicly ,  to be a coward .  

Heres to the lion ,  he said .  I cant ever thank you for 
what you did .  

Margaret ,  his wife ,  looked away from him and back to 
Wilson .  

Lets not talk about the lion ,  5 she said .  

Wilson looked over at her without smiling and now she 
smiled at him .  



HAPPY LIFE OF FRANCIS MACOMBER n 

Its been a very strange day /  she said .  Hadnt you ought 
to put your hat on even under the canvas at noon ?  You told 
me that ,  you know .  

Might put it on ,  said Wilson .  

You know you have a very red face ,  Mr .  Wilson ,  she told 
him and smiled again .  

Drink /  said Wilson .  

I dont think so /  she said .  Francis drinks a great deal ,  but 
his face is never red .  3 

Its red to - day /  Macomber tried a joke .  

No /  said Margaret .  Its mine thats red to - day .  But Mr .  
Wilsons is always red .  

Must be racial /  said Wilson .  I say ,  you wouldnt like to 
drop my beauty as a topic ,  would you ?  

Ive just started on it .  

Lets chuck it /  said Wilson .  

Conversation is going to be so difficult /  Margaret said .  

Dont bo silly ,  Margot /  her husband said .  

No difficulty /  Wilson said .  Got a damn fine lion .  

Margot looked at them both and they both saw that she 
was going to cry .  Wilson had seen it coming for a long time 
and he dreaded it .  Macomber was past dreading it .  

I wish it hadnt happened .  Oh ,  I wish it hadnt happened /  
she said and started for her tent .  She made no noise of crying 
but they could see that her shoulders were shaking under the 
rose - coloured ,  sun - proofed shirt she wore .  

Women upset /  said Wilson to the tall man .  Amounts to 
nothing .  Strain on the nerves and one thing n another .  

No /  said Macomber .  I suppose that I rate that for the 
rest of my life now .  

Nonsense .  Lets have a spot of the giant killer /  said Wilson .  
Forget the whole thing .  Nothing to it anyway .  

We might try /  said Macomber .  I wont forget what you 
did for me though .  

Nothing /  said Wilson .  All nonsense .  

So they sat there in the shade where the camp was pitched 



12 HAPPY LIFE OF FRANCIS MACOMBER 

under some wide - topped acacia trees with a boulder - strewn 
cliff behind them ,  and a stretch of grass that ran to the bank 
of a boulder - filled stream in front with forest beyond it ,  and 
drank their just - cool lime drinks and avoided one anothers 
eyes while the boys set the table for lunch .  Wilson could 
tell that the boys all knew about it now and When he saw 
Macombers personal boy looking curiously at his master 
while he was putting dishes on the table he snapped at him 
in Swahili .  The boy turned away with his face blank .  

What were you telling him ?  Macomber asked .  

Nothing .  Told him to look alive or Id see he got about 
fifteen of the best .  

Whats that ?  Lashes ?  

Its quite illegal ,  Wilson said .  Youre supposed to fine 
them .  

Do you still have them whipped ?  

Oh ,  yes .  They could raise a row if they chose to complain .  
But they dont .  They prefer it to the fines .  

How strange! said Macomber .  

Not strange ,  really ,  Wilson said .  Which would you 
rather do ?  Take a good birching or lose your pay ?  

Then he felt embarrassed at asking it and before 
Macomber could answer he went on ,  We all take a beating 
eVery day ,  you know ,  one way or another .  

This was no better .  Good God ,  he thought .  I am a 
diplomat ,  arent I ?  

Yes ,  we take a beating ,  said Macomber ,  still not looking 
at hini .  Im awfully sorry about that lion business .  It 
doesnt have to go any further ,  does it ?  I mean no one will 
hear about it ,  will they ?  

You mean will I tell it at the Mathaiga Club ?  Wilson 
looked at him now coldly .  He had not expected this .  So hes 
a bloody four - letter man as well as a bloody coward ,  he 
thought .  I rather liked him too until to - day .  But how is one 
to know about an American ?  

No ,  5 said Wilson .  Im a professional hunter .  We never talk 



HAPPY LIFE OF FRANCIS MACOMBER 13 

about our clients .  You can be quite easy on that .  Its 
supposed to be bad form to ask us not to talk though .  

tL had decided now that to break would be much easier .  
He would eat ,  then ,  by himself and could read a book v / ith 
his meals .  They would eat by themselves .  He would see 
them through the safari on a very formal basis what was it 
the French called it ?  Distinguished consideration and it 
would be a damn sight easier than having to go through this 
emotional trash .  Hed insult him and make a good clean 
break .  Then he could read a book with his meals and hed 
still be drinking their whisky .  That was the phrase for it 
when a safari went bad .  You ran into another white hunter 
and you asked ,  c How is everything going ?  and he answered ,  
c Oh ,  Im still drinking their whisky ,  and you knew every -  
thing had gone to pot .  

Im sorry ,  Macomber said and looked at him with his 
American face that would stay adolescent until it became 
middle - aged ,  and Wilson noted his crew - cropped hair ,  fine 
eyes only faintly shifty ,  good nose ,  thin lips and handsome 
jaw .  Im sorry I didnt realize that .  There are lots of 
things I dont know .  

So what could he do ,  Wilson thought .  He was all ready to 
break it off quickly and neatly and here the beggar was 
apologizing after he had just insulted him .  He made one 
more attempt .  Dont worry about me talking ,  he said .  I 
have a living to make .  You know in Africa no woman ever 
misses her lion and no white man ever bolts .  

I bolted like a rabbit ,  Macomber said .  

Now what in hell were you going to do about a man who 
talked like that ,  Wilson wondered .  

Wilson looked at Macomber with his flat ,  blue ,  machine -  
gunners eyes and the other smiled back at him .  He had a 
pleasant smile if you did not notice how his eyes showed 
when he was hurt .  

Maybe I can fix it up on buffalo ,  he said .  Were after 
them next ,  arent we ?  



i 4 HAPPY LIFE OF FRANCIS MACOMBER 

c ln the morning if you like /  Wilson told him .  Perhaps he 
had been wrong .  This was certainly the way to take it .   / ou 
most certainly could not tell a damned thing about an 
American .  He was all for Macomber again .  If you could 
forget the morning .  But ,  of course ,  you couldnt .  The 
morning had been about as bad as they come .  

Here comes the Memsahib ,  he said .  She was walking 
over from her tent looking refreshed and cheerful and quite 
lovely .  She had a very perfect oval face ,  so perfect that you 
expected her to be stupid .  But she wasnt stupid ,  Wilson 
thought ,  no ,  not stupid .  

How is the beautiful red - faced Mr .  Wilson ?  Are you 
feeling better ,  Francis ,  my pearl ?  

Oh ,  much ,  said Macomber .  

Ive dropped the whole thing ,  she said ,  sitting down at 
the table .  What importance is there to whether Francis is 
any good at killing lions ?  Thats not his trade .  Thats Mr .  
Wilsons trade .  Mr .  Wilson is really very impressive killing 
anything .  You do kill anything ,  dont you ?  

Oh ,  anything ,  said Wilson .  Simply anything .  3 They 
are ,  he thought ,  the hardest in the world ;  the hardest ,  the 
cruellest ,  the most predatory and the most attractive and 
their men have softened or gone to pieces nervously as they 
have hardened .  Or is it that they pick men they can handle ?  
They cant know that much at the age they marry ,  he -  
thought .  He was grateful that he had gone through his educa -  
tion on American women before now because this was a very 
attractive one .  

Were going after buff in the morning ,  he told her .  

Im coming ,  she said .  

No youre not .  

Oh ,  yes ,  I am .  Maynt I ,  Francis ?  

Why not stay in camp ?  

Not for anything ,  she said .  I wouldnt miss something 
like to - day for anything .  

When she left ,  Wilson was thinking ,  when she went off to 



HAPPY LIFE OF FRANCIS MACOMBER 15 

cry she seemed a hell of a fine woman .  She seemed to 
understand ,  to realize ,  to be hurt for him and for herself and 
to k*now how things really stood .  She is away for twenty 
minutes and now she is back ,  simply enamelled in that 
American female cruelty .  They are the damnedest womeji .  
Really the clamnedest .  

Well put on another show for you to - morrow ,  Francis 
Macomber said .  

Youre not coming ,  Wilson said .  

Youre very mistaken ,  she told him .  And I want so to 
see you perform again .  You were lovely this morning .  That 
is if blowing things heads off is lovely .  

Heres the lunch ,  said Wilson .  Youre very merry ,  
arent you ?  

Why not ?  I didnt come out here to be dull .  

Well ,  it hasnt been dull ,  Wilson said .  He could see the 
boulders in the river and the high bank beyond with the 
trees and he remembered the morning .  

Oh ,  no /  she said .  Its been charming .  And to - morrow .  
You dont know how I look forward to to - morrow .  

Thats eland hes offering you ,  Wilson said .  

Theyre the big cowy things that jump like hares ,  arent 
they ?  

I suppose that describes them ,  Wilson said .  

Its very good meat ,  Macomber said .  

Did you shoot it ,  Francis ?  she asked .  

Yes .  

Theyre not dangerous ,  are they ?  

Only if they fall on you ,  Wilson told her .  

Im so glad .  

Why not let up on the bitchery just a little ,  Margot ,  
Macomber said ,  cutting the eland steak and putting some 
mashed potato ,  gravy and carrot on the down - turned fork 
that tined through the piece of meat .  

I suppose I could ,  she said ,  since you put it so 
prettily .  



16 HAPPY LIFE OF FRANCIS M A C O M B E R 

To - night well have champagne for the lion ,  Wilson said .  
Its a bit too hot at noon .  

Oh ,  the lion ,  Margot said .  Td forgotten the lion!  -  

So ,  Robert Wilson thought to himself ,  she is giving him a 
ride ,  isnt she ?  Or do you suppose thats her idea of putting 
up a good show ?  How should a woman act when she 
discovers her husband is a bloody coward ?  Shes damn cruel 
but theyre all cruel .  They govern ,  of course ,  and to govern 
one has to be cruel sometimes .  Still ,  Ive seen enough of 
their damn terrorism .  

Have some more eland ,  he said to her politely .  

That afternoon ,  late ,  Wilson and Macomber went out in 
the motor car with the native driver and the two gun - bearers .  
Mrs .  Macomber stayed in the camp .  It was too hot to go out ,  
she said ,  and she was going with them in the early morning .  
As they drove off Wilson saw her standing under the big 
tree looking pretty rather than beautiful in her faintly rosy 
khaki ,  her dark hair drawn back off her forehead and 
gathered in a knot low on her neck ,  her face as fresh ,  he 
thought ,  as though she were in England .  She waved to them 
as the car went off through the swale of high grass and 
curved around through the trees into the small hills of 
orchard bush .  

In the orchard bush they found a herd of impala ,  and 
leaving the car they stalked one old ram with long ,  wide -  
spread horns and Macomber killed it with a very creditable ,  
shot that knocked the buck down at a good two hundred yards 
and sent the herd off bounding wildly and leaping over one 
anothers backs in long ,  leg - drawn - up leaps as unbelievable 
and as floating as those one makes sometimes in dreams .  

That was a good shot ,  Wilson said .  Theyre a small 
target .  5 

Is it a worth - while head ?  Macomber asked .  

Its excellent ,  Wilson told him .  You shoot like that and 
youll have no trouble .  

Do you think well find buffalo to - morrow ?  5 



HAPPY LIFE OF FRANCIS MACOMBER 17 

Theres a good chance of it .  They feed out early in the 
morning and with luck we may catch them in the open .  

Id like to clear away that lion business /  Macomber said .  
Its not very pleasant to have your wife see you do somp .  
thing like that .  

I should think it would be even more unpleasant to do it ,  
Wilson thought ,  wife or no wife ,  or to talk about it having 
done it .  But he said ,  C I wouldnt think about that any more .  
Anyone could be upset by his first lion .  Thats all over .  

But that night after dinner and a whisky and soda by the 
fire before going to bed ,  as Francis Macomber lay on his cot 
with the mosquito bar over him and listened to the night 
noises it was not all over .  It was neither all over nor was it 
beginning .  It was there exactly as it happened with some 
parts of it indelibly emphasized and he was miserably 
ashamed at it .  But more than shame he felt cold ,  hollow 
fear in him .  The fear was still there like a cold slimy hollow 
in all the emptiness where once his confidence had been and 
it made him feel sick .  It was still there with him now .  

It had started the night before when he had wakened and 
heard the lion roaring somewhere up along the river .  It was 
a deep sound and at the end there were sort of coughing grunts 
that made him seem just outside the tent ,  and when Francis 
Macomber woke in the night to hear it he was afraid .  He 
could hear his wife breathing quietly ,  asleep .  There was no 
one to tell he was afraid ,  nor to be afraid with him ,  and ,  
lying alone ,  he did not know the Somali proverb that says 
a brave man is always frightened three times by a lion ;  when 
he first sees his track ,  when he first hears him roar and when 
he first confronts him .  Then while they were eating break -  
fast by lantern light out in the dining tent ,  before the sun 
was up ,  the lion roared again and Francis thought he was 
just at the edge of camp .  

Sounds like an old - timer ,  Robert Wilson said ,  looking up 
from his kippers and coffee .  Listen to him cough .  

Is he very close ?  



i$ HAPPY LIFE OF FRANCIS MACOMBER 

A mile or so up the stream .  

Will we see him ?  5  

Well have a look .  

Does his roaring carry that far ?  It sounds as though he 
were right in camp .  5 

^Carries a hell of a long way ,  said Robert Wilson ,  c lts 
strange the way it carries .  Hope hes a shootable cat .  The 
boys said there was a very big one about here .  

If I get a shot ,  where should I hit him ,  Macomber asked ,  
to stop him ?  

In the shoulders ,  Wilson said .  In the neck if you can 
make it .  Shoot for bone .  Break him down .  

I hope I can place it properly ,  Macomber said .  

You shoot very well ,  Wilson told him .  Take your time .  
Make sure of him .  The first one in is the one that counts .  5 

What range will it be ?  

Cant tell .  Lion has something to say about that .  Dont 
shoot unless its close enough so you can make sure .  5 

At under a hundred yards ?  Macomber asked .  

Wilson looked at him quickly .  

Hundreds about right .  Might have to take him a bit 
under .  Shouldn 5 t chance a shot at much over that .  A 
hundreds a decent range .  You can hit him wherever you 
want at that .  Here comes the Memsahib .  

Good morning ,  5 she said .  Are we going after that lion ?  

As soon as you deal with your breakfast ,  5 Wilson said .  
How are you feeling ?  

Marvellous ,  5 she said .  Tm very excited .  5 

Til just go and see that everything is ready .  Wilson went 
off .  As he left the lion roared again .  

Noisy beggar ,  5 Wilson said .  Well put a stop to that .  

*What 5 s the matte* ,  Francis ?  5 his wife asked him .  

Nothing ,  5 Macomber said .  

Yes ,  there is ,  5 she said .  What are you upset about ?  5 

Nothing ,  5 he said .  

Tell me ,  5 she looked at him .  Dont you feel yvell ?  5 



HAPPY LIFE OF FRANCIS M A C O M B E R 19 

Its that damned roaring ,  he said .  Its been going on all 
night ,  you know .  

f Why didnt you wake me ,  she said .  Td love to have 
heard it .  

Ive got to kill the damned thing ,  Macomber s~id ,  
miserably .  

Well ,  thats what youre out here for ,  isnt it ?  

Yes .  But Im nervous .  Hearing the thing roar gets on my 
nerves .  

Well ,  then ,  as Wilson said ,  kill him and stop his roaring /  

Yes ,  darling ,  said Francis Macomber .  It sounds easy ,  
doesnt it ?  

Youre not afraid ,  are you ?  

Of course not .  But Im nervous from hearing him roar 
all night .  

Youll kill him marvellously ,  she said .  I know you will .  
Im awfully anxious to see it .  

Finish your breakfast and well be starting .  

Its not light yet ,  she said .  This is a ridiculous hour .  

Just then the lion roared in a deep - chested moaning ,  sud -  
denly guttural ,  ascending vibration that seemed to shake the 
air and ended in a sigh and a heavy ,  deep - chested grunt .  

He sounds almost here ,  Macombers wife said .  

My God ,  said Macomber .  I hate that damned noise .  

Its very impressive .  

Impressive .  Its frightful .  

Robert Wilson came up then carrying his short ,  ugly ,  
shockingly big - bored  . 505 Gibbs and grinning .  

Come on ,  he said .  Your gun - bearer has your Springfield 
and the big gun .  Everythings in the car .  Have you solids ?  

Yes .  5 

Im ready ,  Mrs .  Macomber said .  

Must make him stop that racket ,  Wilson said .  You get in 
front .  The Memsahib can sit back here with me .  

They climbed into the motor car and ,  in the grey first day -  
light ,  moved off up the river through the trees .  Macomber 



20 HAPPY LIFE OF FRANCIS MACOMBER 

opened the breach of his rifle and saw he had metal - cased 
bullets ,  shut the bolt and put the rifle on safety .  He saw his 
hand was trembling .  He felt in his pocket for more cartridges 
ar*d moved his fingers over the cartridges in the loops of his 
tunic front .  He turned back to where Wilson sat in the rear 
seat of the doorless ,  box - bodied motor car beside his wife ,  
them both grinning with excitement ,  and Wilson leaned 
forward and whispered .  

See the birds dropping .  Means the old boy has left his 
kill .  

On the far bank of the stream Macomber could see ,  above 
the trees ,  vultures circling and plummeting down .  

Chances are hell come to drink along here /  Wilson 
whispered .  Before he goes to lay up .  Keep an eye out .  

They were driving slowly along the high bank of the stream 
which here cut deeply to its boulder - filled bed ,  and they 
wound in and out through big trees as they drove .  Macomber 
was watching the opposite bank when he felt Wilson take 
hold of his arm .  The car stopped .  

There he is ,  he heard the whisper .  Ahead and to the 
right .  Get out and take him .  Hes a marvellous lion .  

Macomber saw the lion now .  He was standing almost 
broadside ,  his great head up and turned toward them .  The 
earlymorning breeze that blew toward them was just stirring 
his dark mane ,  and the lion looked huge ,  silhouetted on the rise 
of bank in the grey morning light ,  his shoulders heavy ,  his 
barrel of a body bulking smoothly .  

How far is he ?  asked Macomber ,  raising his rifle .  

About seventy - five .  Get out and take him .  5 

Why not shoot from where I am ?  

You dont shoot them from cars ,  he heard Wilson saying 
in his ear .  Get out .  Hes not going to stay there all day .  

Macomber stepped out of the curved opening at the side 
of the front seat ,  on to the step and down on to the ground .  
The lion still stood looking majestically and coolly toward 
this object that his eyes only showed in silhouette ,  bulking 



HAPPY LIFE OF FRANCIS MACOMBER 21 

like some super - rhino .  There was no man smell carried 
toWard him and he watched the object ,  moving his great 
head a little from side to side .  Then watching the object ,  
not afraid ,  but hesitating before going down the bartk . to 
drink with such a thing opposite him ,  he saw aman figure 
detach itself from it and he turned his heavy head and 
swung away toward the cover of the trees as he heard a 
cracking crash and felt the slam of a  . 30 - 06 220 - grain solid 
bullet that bit his flank and ripped in sudden hot scalding 
nausea through his stomach .  He trotted ,  heavy ,  big - footed ,  
swinging wounded full - bellied ,  through the trees toward 
the tall grass and cover ,  and the crash came again to go 
past him ripping the air apart .  Then it crashed again and 
he felt the blow as it hit his lower ribs and ripped on 
through ,  blood sudden hot and frothy in his mouth ,  and he 
galloped toward the high grass where he could crouch and 
not be seen and make them bring the crashing thing close 
enough so he could make a rush and get the man that held it .  
Macomber had not thought how the lion felt as he got out 
of the car .  He only knew his hands were shaking and as he 
walked away from the car it was almost impossible for him to 
make his legs move .  They were stiff in the thighs ,  but he 
could feel the muscles fluttering .  He raised the rifle ,  sighted 
on the junction of the lions head and shoulders and pulled 
the trigger .  Nothing happened though he pulled until he 
thought his finger would break .  Then he knew he had the 
safety on and as he lowered the rifle to move the safety over 
he moved another frozen pace forward ,  and the lion seeing 
his silhouette now clear of the silhouette of the car ,  turned 
and started off at a trot ,  and ,  as Macomber fired ,  he heard 
a whunk that meant that the bullet was home ;  but the lion 
kept on going .  Macomber shot again and everyone saw the 
bullet throw a spout of dirt beyond the trotting lion .  He 
shot again ,  remembering to lower his aim ,  and they all 
heard the bullet hit ,  and the lion went into a gallop and was 
in the tall grass before he had the bolt pushed forward .  



22 HAPPY LIFE OF FRANCIS MACOMBER 

Macomber stood there feeling sick at his stomach ,  his 
hands that held the Springfield still cocked ,  shaking ,  and his 
wife and Robert Wilson were standing by him .  Beside him 
too ,  , were the two gun - bearers chattering in Wakamba .  

I .  hit him /  Macomber said .  I hit him twice .  

You gut - shot him and you hit him somewhere forward /  
Wilson said without enthusiasm .  The gun - bearers looked 
very grave .  They were silent now .  

You may have killed him ,  Wilson went on .  Well have 
to wait a while before we go in to find out .  

What do you mean ?  

Let him get sick before we follow him up .  

Oh ,  said Macomber .  

Hes a hell of a fine lion ,  Wilson said cheerfully .  Hes 
gotten into a bad place though .  

Why is it bad ?  

Cant see him until youre on him .  

Oh ,  said Macomber .  

Come on ,  said Wilson .  The Memsahib can stay here in 
the car .  Well go to have a look at the blood spoor .  

Stay here ,  Margot ,  Macomber said to his wife .  His 
mouth was very dry and it was hard for him to talk .  

Why ?  she asked .  

Wilson says to .  

Were going to have a look ,  Wilson said .  You stay here .  
You can see even better from here .  

All right .  

Wilson spoke in Swahili to the driver .  He nodded and 
said ,  Yes ,  Bwana .  

Then they went down the steep bank and across the 
stream ,  climbing over and around the boulders and up the 
other bank ,  pulling up by some projecting roots ,  and along it 
until they found where the lion had been trotting when 
Macomber first shot .  There was dark blood on the short 
grass that the gun - bearers pointed out with grass stems ,  and 
that ran away behind the river bank trees .  



HAPPY LIFE OF FRANCIS MACOMBER 23 

What do we do ?  asked Macomber .  

Not much choice ,  said Wilson .  We cant bring the car 
over! Banks too steep .  Well let him stiffen up a bit and then 
you and Ill go in and have a look for him .  

Cant we set the grass on lire ?  Macomber asked .  

Too green .  

Cant we send beaters ?  

Wilson looked at him appi^iisingly .  Of course We can /  he 
said .  But its just a touch murderous .  You see we know the 
lions wounded .  You can drive an unwounded lion hell 
move on ahead of a noise but a wounded lions going to 
charge .  You cant see him until youre right on him .  Hell 
make himself perfectly flat in cover you wouldnt think would 
hide a hare .  You cant very well send boys in there to that 
sort of a show .  Somebody bound to get mauled .  

What about the gun - bearers ?  

Oh ,  theyll go with us .  Its their shauri .  You see ,  they 
signed on for it .  They dont look too happy though ,  do they ? * 

I dont want to go in there ,  said Macomber .  It was out 
before he knew hed said it .  

Neither do I ,  said Wilson very cheerily .  Really no 
choice though .  Then ,  as an afterthought ,  he glanced at 
Macomber and saw suddenly how he was trembling and the 
pitiful look on his face .  

You dont have to go in ,  of course ,  he said .  Thats what 
Im hired for ,  you know .  Thats why Im so expensive .  

You mean youd go in by yourself ?  Why not leave hirm 
there ?  

Robert Wilson ,  whose entire occupation had been with the 
lion and the problem he presented ,  and who had not been 
thinking about Macomber except to note that he was rather 
windy ,  suddenly felt as though he had opened the wrong door 
in an hotel and seen something shameful .  

What do you mean ?  

Why not just leave him ?  

You mean pretend to ourselves he hasnt been hit ?  5 



24 HAPPY LIFE OF FRANCIS MACOMBER 

No .  Just drop it .  

It isnt done .  

Why not ?  

 - for one thing ,  hes certain to be suffering .  For another ,  
someone efse might run onto him .  

I see .  

*But you dont have to have anything to do with it .  

Td like to ,  Macomber said .  Im just scared ,  you know .  

Ill go ahead when we go in ,  Wilson said ,  with Kongoni 
tracking .  You keep behind me and a little to one side .  
Chances are well hear him growl .  If we see him well both 
shoot .  Dont worry about any thing .  Ill keep you backed up .  
As a matter of fact ,  you know ,  perhaps youd better not go .  
It might be much better .  Why dont you go over and join 
the Memsahib while I just get it over with ?  

No ,  I want to go .  

*A11 right ,  said Wilson .  But dont go in if you dont want 
to .  This is my shauri now ,  you know .  

I want to go ,  said Macomber .  

They sat under a tree and smoked .  

Want to go back and speak to the Memsahib while were 
waiting ?  Wilson asked .  

No .  

Til just step back and tell her to be patient .  

*Good /  said Macomber .  He sat there ,  sweating under his 
arms ,  his mouth dry ,  his stomach hollow feeling ,  wanting to 
find courage to tell Wilson to go on and finish off the lion 
without him .  He could not know that Wilson was furious be -  
cause he had not noticed the state he was in earlier and sent 
him back to his wife .  While he sat there Wilson came up .  I 
have your big gun ,  he said .  Take it .  Weve given him time ,  
I think .  Come on .  

Macomber took the big gun and Wilson said: 

Keep behind me and about five yards to the right and do 
exactly as I tell you .  3 Then he spoke in Swahili to the two 
:gun - bearers who looked the picture of gloom .  



HAPPY LIFE OF FRANCIS MACOMBER 25 

Lets go ,  he said .  

Could I have a drink of water ?  Macomber asked .  Wilson 
spoSe to the older gun - bearer ,  who wore a canteen on his belt 
and the man unbuckled it ,  unscrewed the top and handed it 
to Macomber ,  who took it noticing how heavy it Seemed a<nd 
how hairy and shoddy the felt covering was in his hand .  He 
raised it to drink and looked ahead at the high grass with the 
flat - topped trees behind it .  A breeze was blowing toward 
them and the grass rippled gently in the wind .  He looked at 
the gun - bearer and he could see the gun - bearer was 
suffering too with fear .  

Thirty - five yards into the grass the big lion lay flattened 
out along the ground .  His ears were back and his only move -  
ment was a slight twitching up and down of his long ,  black -  
tufted tail .  He had turned at bay as soon as he had reached 
this cover and he was sick with the wound through his full 
belly ,  and weakening with the wound through his lungs that 
brought a thin foamy red to his mouth each time he 
breathed .  His flanks were wet and hot and flies were on the 
little opening the solid bullets had made in his tawny hide ,  
and his big yellow eyes ,  narrowed with hate ,  looked straight 
ahead ,  only blinking when the pain came as he breathed ,  
and his claws dug in the soft baked earth .  All of him ,  pain ,  
sickness ,  hatred and all of his remaining strength ,  was 
tightening into an absolute concentration for a rush .  He 
could hear the men talking and he waited ,  gathering all of 
himself into this preparation for a charge as soon as the men 
would come into the grass .  As he heard their voices his tail 
stiffened to twitch up and down ,  and ,  as they came into the 
edge of the grass ,  he made a "  coughing grunt and charged .  

Kongoni ,  the old gun - bearer ,  in the lead watching the 
blood spoor ,  Wilson watching the grass for any movement ,  
his big gun ready ,  the second gun - bearer looking ahead and 
listening ,  Macomber close to Wilson ,  his rifle cocked ,  they 
had just moved into the grass when Macomber heard the 
blood - choked cbughing grunt ,  and saw the swishing rush in 



26 HAPPY LIFE OF FRANCIS MACOMBER 

the grass .  The next thing he knew he was running ;  running 
wildly ,  in panic in the open ,  running toward the stream .  

He heard the ca - ra - wong \  of Wilsons big rifle ,  and again 
in %  " second crashing carawongl and turning saw the lion ,  
horrible - looking now ,  with half his head seeming to be gone ,  
crawling toward Wilson in the edge of the tall grass while 
the red - faced man worked the bolt on the short ugly rifle and 
aimed carefully as another blasting carawongl came from the 
muzzle ,  and the crawling ,  heavy ,  yellow bulk of the lion stif -  
fened and the huge ,  mutilated head slid forward and Macom -  
ber ,  standing by himself in the clearing where he had run ,  
holding a loaded rifle ,  while two black men and a white man 
looked back at him in contempt ,  knew the lion was dead .  
He came toward Wilson ,  his tallness all seeming a naked 
reproach ,  and Wilson looked at him and said: 

Want to take pictures ?  

No ,  he said .  

That was all anyone had said until they reached the motor 
car .  Then Wilson had said: 

Hell of a fine lion .  Boys will skin him out .  We might as 
well stay here in the shade .  

Macombers wife had not looked at him nor he at her and 
he had sat by her in the back seat with Wilson sitting in the 
front seat .  Once he had reached over and taken his wifes 
hand without looking at her and she had removed her hand 
from his .  Looking across the stream to where the gun -  
bearers were skinning out the lion he could see that she had 
been able to see the whole thing .  While they sat there his 
wife had reached forward and put her hand on Wilsons 
shoulder .  He turned and she had leaned forward over the 
low seat and kissed him on the mouth .  

Oh ,  I say ,  said Wilson ,  going redder than his natural 
baked colour .  

Mr .  Robert Wilson ,  she said .  The beautifully red - faced 
Mr .  Robert Wilson .  

Then she sat down beside Macomber again and looked 



HAPPY LIFE OF FRANCIS MACOMBER 27 

away across the stream to where the lion lay ,  with uplifted ,  
whitfc - muscled ,  tendon - marked naked forearms ,  and white 
bloating belly ,  as the black men fleshed away the skin .  
Finally the gun - bearers brought the skinover ,  wet and heavy ,  
and climbed in behind with it ,  rolling it up before they got 
in ,  and the motor car started .  No one had said anything 
more until they were back in camp .  

That was the story of the lion .  Macomber did not know 
how the lion had felt before he started his rush ,  nor during it 
when the unbelievable smash of the  . 505 with a muzzle 
velocity of two tons had hit him in the mouth ,  nor what kept 
him coming after that ,  when the second ripping crash had 
smashed his hind quarters and he had come crawling on 
toward the crashing ,  blasting thing that had destroyed him .  
Wilson knew something about it and only expressed it by 
saying / Damned fine lion ,  but Macomber did not know how 
Wilson felt about things either .  He did not know how his 
wife felt except that she was through with him .  

His wife had beerr through with him before but it never 
lasted .  He was very wealthy ,  and would be much wealthier ,  
and he knew she would not leave him ever now .  That was 
one of the few things that he really knew .  He knew about 
that ,  about motor cycles that was earliest about motor 
cars ,  about duck - shooting ,  about fishing ,  trout ,  salmon and 
big - sea ,  about sex in books ,  many books ,  too many books ,  
about all court games ,  about dogs ,  not much about horses ,  
about hanging on to his money ,  about most of the other 
things his world dealt in ,  and about his wife not leaving him .  
His wife had been a great beauty and she was still a great 
beauty in Africa ,  but she was not a great enough beauty any 
more at home to be able to leave him and better herself and 
she knew it and he knew it .  She had missed the chance to 
leave him and he knew it .  If he had been better with women 
she would probably have started to worry about him 
getting another new ,  beautiful wife ;  but she knew too 
much about him to worry about him either .  Also ,  he had 



28 HAPPY LIFE OF FRANCIS MACOMBER 

always had a great tolerance which seemed the nicest thing 
about him if it were not the most sinister .  * 

All in all they were known as a comparatively happily*mar -  
riecl couple ,  one of those whose disruption is often rumoured 
but never* occurs ,  and as the society columnist put it ,  they 
were adding more than a spice of adventure to their much 
envied and ever - enduring Romance by a Safari in what was 
known as* Darkest Africa until the Martin Johnsons lighted it 
on so many silver screens where they were pursuing Old 
Simba the lion ,  the buffalo ,  Tembo the elephant and as well 
collecting specimens for the Museum of Natural History .  
This same columnist had reported them on the verge at least 
three times in the past and they had been .  But they always 
made it up .  They had a sound basis of union .  Margot was 
too beautiful for Macomber to divorce her and Macomber 
had too much money for Margot ever to leave him .  

It was now about three oclock in the morning and Francis 
Macomber ,  who had been asleep a little while after he had 
stopped thinking about the lion ,  wakened and then slept 
again ,  woke suddenly ,  frightened in a dream of the bloody -  
headed lion standing over him ,  and listening while his heart 
pounded ,  he realized that his wife was not in the other cot 
in the tent .  He lay awake with that knowledge for two hours .  

At the end of that time his wife came into the tent ,  lifted 
her mosquito bar and crawled cozily into bed .  

Where have you been ?  3 Macomber asked in the darkness .  

Hello ,  she said .  Are you awake ?  

Where have you been ?  

I just went out to get a breath of air .  

You did ,  like hell .  

What do you want me to say ,  darling ?  

Where have you been ?  

Out to get a breath of air .  

Thats a new name for it .  You are a bitch .  

Well ,  youre a coward .  

All right /  he said .  What of it ?  



HAPPY LIFE OF FRANCIS MACOMBER 29 

Nothing as far as Im concerned .  But please lets not talk 
darling ,  because Im very sleepy .  

You think that Ill take anything .  

I know you will ,  sweet .  

Well ,  I wont .  

Please ,  darling ,  lets not talk .  Im so very sleepy .  

There wasnt going to be any of that .  You promised there 
wouldnt be .  

Well ,  there is now ,  she said sweetly .  

You said if we made this trip that there would be none 
of that .  You promised .  

Yes ,  darling .  Thats the way I meant it to be .  But the 
trip was spoiled yesterday .  We dont have to talk about it ,  
do we ?  

You dont wait long when you have an advantage ,  
do you ?  

Please lets not talk .  Im so sleepy ,  darling .  

Tm going to talk .  

Dont mind me then ,  because Im going to sleep .  And 
she did .  

At breakfast they were all three at the table before day -  
light and Francis Macomber found that ,  of all the many men 
that he had hated ,  he hated Robert Wilson the most .  

Sleep well ?  Wilson asked in his throaty voice ,  filling a pipe .  

Did you ?  

Topping ,  the white hunter told him .  

You bastard ,  thought Macomber ,  you insolent bastard .  

So she woke him when she came in ,  Wilson thought ,  look -  
ing at them both with his flat ,  cold eyes .  Well ,  why doesnt 
he keep his wife where she belongs ?  What does he think I 
am ,  a bloody plaster saint ?  Let him keep her where she 
belongs .  Its his own fault .  

Do you think well find buffalo ?  Margot asked ,  pushing 
away a dish of apricots .  

Chance of it ,  Wilson said and smiled at her .  Why dont 
you stay in camp ?  



30 HAPPY LIFE OF FRANCIS MACOMBER 

Not for anything ,  she told him .  

Why not order her to stay in camp ?  Wilson said to 
Macomber .  

iYou order her ,  said Macomber coldly .  

Lets not have any ordering ,  nor ,  turning to Macomber ,  
any silliness ,  Francis ,  Margot said quite pleasantly .  

Are you ready to start ?  Macomber asked .  

Any time ,  Wilson told him .  Do you want the Memsahib 
to go ?  

Does it make any difference whether I do or not ?  

The hell with it ,  thought Robert Wilson .  The utter com -  
plete hell with it .  So this is what its going to be like .  Well ,  
this is what its going to be like ,  then .  

Makes no difference ,  he said .  

Youre sure you wouldnt like to stay in camp with her 
yourself and let me go out and hunt the buffalo ?  Macomber 
asked .  

Cant do that ,  said Wilson .  Wouldnt talk rot if I were 
you .  

Tm not talking rot .  Im disgusted .  

Bad word ,  disgusted .  

Francis ,  will you please try to speak sensibly ?  his wife said .  

I speak too damned sensibly ,  Macomber said .  Did you 
ever eat such filthy food ?  

Something wrong with the food ?  asked Wilson quietly .  

No more than with everything else .  

Id pull yourself together ,  laddybuck /  Wilson said very 
quietly .  Theres a boy waits at table that understands a 
little English .  

The hell with him .  

Wilson stood up and puffing on his pipe strolled away ,  
speaking a few words in Swahili to one of the gun - bearers 
who was standing waiting for him .  Macomber and his wife 
sat on at the table .  He was staring at his coffee cup .  

If you make a scene Ill leave you ,  darling ,  Margot said 
quietly .  



HAPPY LIFE OF FRANCIS M A C O M B E R 31 

No ,  you wont .  

You can try it and see .  

You wont leave me .  

No /  she said .  C I wont leave you and youll behave 
yourself .  

Behave myself ?  Thats a way to talk .  Behave myself .  

Yes .  Behave yourself .  

Why dont you try behaving ?  

Ive tried it so long .  So very long .  

I hate that red - faced swine /  Macomber said .  I loathe the 
sight of him .  

Hes really very nice .  

Oh ,  shut up ?  Macomber almost shouted .  Just then the car 
came up and stopped in front of the dining tent and the 
driver and the two gun - bearers got out .  Wilson walked over 
and looked at the husband and wife sitting there at the table .  

Going shooting ?  he asked .  

Yes /  said Macomber ,  standing up .  Yes .  

Better bring a woolly .  It will be cool in the car /  Wilson 
said .  

Til get my leather jacket /  Margot said .  

The boy has it /  Wilson told her .  He climbed into the 
front with the driver and Francis Macomber and his wife 
sat ,  not speaking ,  in the back seat .  

Hope the silly beggar doesnt take a notion to blow the 
back of my head off ,  Wilson thought to himself .  Women are 
a nuisance on safari .  

The car was grinding down to cross the river at a pebbly 
ford in the grey daylight and then climbed ,  angling up the 
steep bank ,  where Wilson had ordered a way shovelled out 
the day before so they could reach the parklike wooded 
rolling country on the far side .  

It was a good morning ,  Wilson thought .  There was a 
heavy dew and as the wheels went through the grass and low 
bushes he could smell the odour of the crushed fronds .  It was 
an odour like verbena and he liked this early morning smell 



32 HAPPY LIFE OF FRANCIS MACOMBER 

of the dew ,  the crushed bracken and the look of the tree 
trunks showing black through the early morning mist ,  as t the 
car made its way through the untracked ,  parklike country .  
HeJhad put the two in the back seat out of his mind now and 
was thinking about buffalo .  The buffalo that he was after 
stayed in the daytime in a thick swamp where it was impos -  
sible to get a shot ,  but in the night they fed out into an open 
stretch of Country and if he could come between them and 
their swamp with the car ,  Macomber would have a good 
chance at them in the open .  He did not want to hunt buff 
with Macomber in thick cover .  He did not want to hunt buff 
or anything else with Macomber at all ,  but he was a pro -  
fessional hunter and he had hunted with some rare ones in his 
time .  If they got buff to - day there would only be rhino to 
come and the poor man would have gone through his dan -  
gerous game and things might pick up .  Hed have nothing 
more to do with the woman and Macomber would get over 
that too .  He must have gone through plenty of that before 
by the look of things .  Poor beggar .  He must have a way of 
getting over it .  Well ,  it was the poor sods own bloody fault .  

He ,  Robert Wilson ,  carried a double size cot on safari to 
accommodate any windfalls he might receive .  He had 
hunted for a certain clientele ,  the international ,  fast ,  sporting 
set ,  where the women did not feel they were getting their 
moneys worth unless they had shared that cot with the 
white hunter .  He despised them when he was away from 
them although he liked some of them well enough at the time ,  
but he made his living by them ;  and their standards were 
his standards as long as they were hiring him .  

They were his standards in all except the shooting .  He had 
his own standards about the killing and they could live up to 
them or get someone else to hunt them .  He knew ,  too ,  that 
they all respected him for this .  This Macomber was art odd 
one though .  Damned if he wasnt .  Now the wife .  Well ,  the 
wife .  Yes ,  the wife ,  Mm ,  the wife .  Well ,  hed dropped all 
that .  He looked around at them .  Macomber sat grim and 



HAPPY LIFE OF FRANCIS MACOMBER 33 

furious .  Margot smiled at him .  She looked younger to - day ,  
more innocent and fresher and not so professionally beau -  
tifuh Whats in her heart God knows ,  Wilson thought .  She 
hadnt talked much last night .  At that it was a pleasure to 
see her .  9 

The mottfr car climbed up a slight rise and went on 
through the trees and then out into a grassy prairie - like 
opening and kept in the shelter of the trees along the edge ,  
the driver going slowly and Wilson looking carefully out 
across the prairie and all along its far side .  He stopped the 
car and studied the opening with his field glasses .  Then he 
motioned to the driver to go on and the car moved slowly 
along ,  the driver avoiding wart - hog holes and driving 
around the mud castles ants had built .  Then ,  looking across 
the opening ,  Wilson suddenly turned and said : 

By God ,  there they are! 

And looking where he pointed ,  while the car jumped 
forward and Wilson spoke in rapid Swahili to the driver ,  
Macomber saw three huge ,  black animals looking almost 
cylindrical in their long heaviness ,  like big black tank cars ,  
moving at a gallop across the far edge of the open prairie .  
They moved at a stiff - necked ,  stiff - bodied gallop and he 
could see the upswept wide black horns on their heads as 
they galloped heads out ;  the heads not moving .  

Theyre three old bulls ,  Wilson said .  Well cut them off 
before they get to the swamp .  

 .  The car was going a wild forty - five miles an hour across the 
open ,  and as Macomber watched ,  the buffalo got bigger and 
bigger until he could see the grey ,  hairless ,  scabby look of one 
huge bull and how his neck was a part of his shoulders and 
the shiny black of his horns as he galloped a little behind the 
others that were strung out in that steady plunging gait ;  and 
then ,  the car swaying as though it had just jumped a road ,  
they drew up close and he could see the plunging hugeness of 
the bull ,  and the dust in his sparsely haired hide ,  the wide 
boss of horn and his outstretched ,  wide - nostrilled muzzle ,  



34 HAPPY LIFE OF FRANCIS MACOMBER 

and he was raising his rifle when Wilson shouted ,  Not from 
the car ,  you fool! and he had no fear ,  only hatred of Wilson ,  
while the brakes clamped on and the car skidded ,  ploughing 
sideways to an almost stop and Wilson was out on one side 
and he on the other ,  stumbling as his feet hit the still speeding -  
by of the earth ,  and then he was shooting at the bull as he 
moved away ,  hearing the bullets whunk into him ,  emptying 
his rifle at him as he moved steadily away ,  finally remem -  
bering to get his shots forward into the shoulder ,  and as he 
fumbled to re - load ,  he saw the bull was down .  Down on his 
knees ,  his big head tossing ,  and seeing the other two still 
galloping he shot at the leader and hit him .  He shot again 
and missed and he heard the carawonging roar as Wilson shot 
and saw the leading bull slide forward onto his nose .  
Get that other ,  Wilson said .  Now youre shooting! 
But the other bull was moving steadily at the same gallop 
and he missed ,  throwing a spout of dirt ,  and Wilson missed 
and the dust rose in a cloud and Wilson shouted ,  Gome on .  
Hes too far! and grabbed his arm and they were in the car 
again ,  Macomber and Wilson hanging on the sides and 
rocketing swayingly over the uneven ground ,  drawing up on 
the steady ,  plunging ,  heavy - necked ,  straight - moving gallop 
of the bull .  

They were behind him and Macomber was filling his rifle ,  
dropping shells onto the ground ,  jamming it ,  clearing the 
jam ,  then they were almost up with the bull when Wilson 
yelled Stop! 5 and the car skidded so that it almost swung 
over and Macomber fell forward onto his feet ,  slammed his 
bolt forward and fired as far forward as he could aim into 
the galloping ,  rounded black back ,  aimed and shot again ,  
then again ,  then again ,  and the bullets ,  all of them hitting ,  
had no effect on the buffalo that he could see .  Then Wilson 
shot ,  the roar deafening him ,  and he could see the bull 
stagger .  Macomber shot again ,  aiming carefully ,  and down 
he came ,  onto his knees .  

All right ,  5 Wilson said .  Nice work .  Thats the three .  



HAPPY LIFE OF FRANCIS MACOMBER 35 

Macomber felt a drunken elation .  

How many times did you shoot ?  he asked .  

Jhst three /  Wilson said .  You killed the first bull .  The 
biggest one .  I helped you finish the other two .  Afraid fhey 
might have got into cover .  You had them killed .  * I was just 
mopping upa little .  You shot damn well .  

Lets go to the car ,  said Macomber .  I want a drink .  

Got to finish off that buff first ,  Wilson told him .  The 
buffalo was on his knees and he jerked his head furiously and 
bellowed in pig - eyed ,  roaring rage as they came toward him ,  

Watch he doesnt get up ,  Wilson said .  Then ,  Get a little 
broadside and take him in the neck just behind the ear .  

Macomber aimed carefully at the centre of the huge ,  
jerking ,  rage - driven neck and shot .  At the shot the head 
dropped forward .  

That does it ,  said Wilson .  Got the spine .  Theyre a hell 
of a looking thing ,  arent they ?  

Lets get the drink ,  said Macomber .  In his life he had 
never felt so good .  

In the car Macombers wife sat very white faced .  You 
were marvellous ,  darling ,  she said to Macomber .  What a^ 
ride .  

Was it rough ?  Wilson asked .  

It was frightful .  Ive never been more frightened in my 
life .  

Lets all have a drink ,  Macomber said .  

By all means ,  said Wilson .  Give it to the Memsahib .  She 
drank the neat whisky from the flask and shuddered a little 
when she swallowed .  She handed the flask to Macomber who 
handed it to Wilson .  

It was frightfully exciting ,  she said .  Its given me a 
dreadful headache .  I didnt know you were allowed to 
shoot them from cars though .  3 

No one shot from cars ,  said Wilson coldly .  

I mean chase them from cars .  

Wouldnt ordinarily /  Wilson said .  Seemed sporting 



36 HAPPY LIFE OF FRANCIS MACOMBER 

enough to me though while we were doing it .  Taking more 
chance driving that way across the plain full of holes and one 
thing and another than hunting on foot .  Buffalo could have 
charged us each time we shot if he liked .  Gave him every 
chance .  Wouldnt mention it to anyone though .  Its illegal 
if thats what you mean .  5 